What's he?
Csar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt; And bids thee study on what fair demands Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
And so they shall.
But it is your carbonadoed face.
And so the Earl of Armagnac may do, Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
Why, now you have done me right.
What 'her' is this?
Peto, how now! what news?
Why, then, we kill all our women: we see how mortal an unkindness is to them; if they suffer our departure, death's the word.
True, uncle.
Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can, That this my death may never be forgot Great men oft die by vile bezonians: A Roman sworder and banditto slave Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand Stabb'd Julius Csar; savage islanders Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis; or Francis, o' Thursday; or indeed, Francis, when thou wilt.   But, Francis!
I am sure he is, to the hearing of any thing good. Go, pluck him by the elbow; I must speak with him.
I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful: Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give As one near death to those that wish him live: But what at full I know, thou know'st no part, I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
Now, sirs: by'r lady, you fought fair; so did you, Peto; so did you, Bardolph: you are lions too, you ran away upon instinct, you will not touch the true prince; no, fie!
Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls: And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear, Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum And dead men's cries do fill the empty air, Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me; Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland, Warwick is hoarse with calling thee to arms. How now, my noble lord! what, all afoot?
And thou art honest too. I wish I could be made so many men, And all of you clapp'd up together in An Antony, that I might do you service So good as you have done.
Go to; stand aside.
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight? Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
Thump.
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
And grant it.
Dost thou hear me, Hal?
Yea, an 't please you.
He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth; And at the time of my departure thence He was much fear'd by his physicians.
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tu!
Nay, come your ways. 
I hope, not dead.
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law: But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
Dost not know a Jew, one Barabas ?
I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.'
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford, Vouchsafe at our request, to stand aside, While I use further conference with Warwick.
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne, Wherein my grandsire and my father sat? No: first shall war unpeople this my realm; Ay, and their colours, often borne in France, And now in England to our heart's great sorrow, Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords? My title's good, and better far than his.
Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe To give me hearing what I shall reply. If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse, As he will have me, how am I so poor? Or how haps it I seek not to advance Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling? And for dissension, who preferreth peace More than I do?--except I be provoked. No, my good lords, it is not that offends; It is not that that hath incensed the duke: It is, because no one should sway but he; No one but he should be about the king; And that engenders thunder in his breast And makes him roar these accusations forth. But he shall know I am as good--
When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck fire, It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire Of bold-faced victory. Then leaden age, Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage, Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy, And from the pride of Gallia rescued thee. The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood Of thy first fight, I soon encountered, And interchanging blows I quickly shed Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace Bespoke him thus; 'Contaminated, base And misbegotten blood I spill of thine, Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy: Here, purposing the Bastard to destroy, Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care, Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare? Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly, Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry? Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead: The help of one stands me in little stead. O, too much folly is it, well I wot, To hazard all our lives in one small boat! If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage, To-morrow I shall die with mickle age: By me they nothing gain an if I stay; 'Tis but the shortening of my life one day: In thee thy mother dies, our household's name, My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame: All these and more we hazard by thy stay; All these are saved if thou wilt fly away.
So did he never the sparrow.
O, no, forbear! for that which we have fled During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
If York have ill demean'd himself in France, Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
How will my wife for slaughter of my son Shed seas of tears and ne'er be satisfied!
It is well said, in faith, sir; and it is well said indeed too. Better accommodated! it is good; yea, indeed, is it: good phrases are surely, and ever were, very commendable. Accomodated! it comes of 'accommodo:' very good; a good phrase.
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord, not with love: prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of blind Cupid.
You all look strangely on me: and you most; You are, I think, assured I love you not.
What, art thou lame?
Do so, and 'tis well. What letters hast thou there? I can but thank you.
My gracious prince, and honourable peers, Hearing of your arrival in this realm, I have awhile given truce unto my wars, To do my duty to my sovereign: In sign whereof, this arm, that hath reclaim'd To your obedience fifty fortresses, Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength, Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem, Lets fall his word before your highness' feet, And with submissive loyalty of heart Ascribes the glory of his conquest got First to my God and next unto your grace.
Who goes there?
E'en that you have there. 
Is this proceeding just and honourable?
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
Richard, enough; I will be king, or die. Brother, thou shalt to London presently, And whet on Warwick to this enterprise. Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk, And tell him privily of our intent. You, Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham, With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise: In them I trust; for they are soldiers, Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit. While you are thus employ'd. what resteth more, But that I seek occasion how to rise, And yet the king not privy to my drift, Nor any of the house of Lancaster? But, stay: what news?   Why comest thou in such post?
Not a wise word, only gave me a nod, as who shold say, Is it even so; and so I left him, being driven to a non-
plus at the critical aspect of my terrible countenance.
Fly, fly, fly!   Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
Words sweetly placed and modestly directed. But, madam, I must trouble you again; No loving token to his majesty?
I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses a month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success: I have congied with the duke, done my adieu with his nearest; buried a wife, mourned for her; writ to my lady mother I am returning; entertained my convoy; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected many nicer needs: the last was the greatest, but that I have not ended yet.
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
Forbear me till anon. This wine for Lepidus!
So 'tis reported, sir.
O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet, Which held thee dearly as his soul's redemption, Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Ay, but not mine own desire.
I am come to survey the Tower this day: Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance. Where be these warders, that they wait not here? Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
Laud be to God! even there my life must end. It hath been prophesied to me many years, I should not die but in Jerusalem; Which vainly I supposed the Holy Land: But bear me to that chamber; there I'll lie In that Jerusalem shall Harry die.
More rushes, more rushes.
Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon, When men revolted shall upon record Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did Before thy face repent!
If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
Fell banning hag, enchantress, hold thy tongue!
O, 'tis brave wars!
You know me well; I am he.
Long sitting to determine poor men's causes Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
But, more of thy news?
Where?
How comes this, Sir John?   Fie! what man of good temper would endure this tempest of exclamation? Are you not ashamed to enforce a poor widow to so rough a course to come by her own?
Ay, are you thereabouts ? Why, then, good night indeed.
Why, then we shall have a stirring world again. This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
Tend me to-night; May be it is the period of your duty: Haply you shall not see me more; or if, A mangled shadow: perchance to-morrow You'll serve another master. I look on you As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends, I turn you not away; but, like a master Married to your good service, stay till death: Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more, And the gods yield you for't !
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober: if they make you not then the better answer, you may say they are not the men you took them for.
What tell you me of it? be it as it is.
Undaunted spirit in a dying breast! Then be it so: heavens keep old Bedford safe! And now no more ado, brave Burgundy, But gather we our forces out of hand And set upon our boasting enemy. An alarum: excursions. Enter SIR JOHN FASTOLFE and a Captain. 
The Prince of Wales stepp'd forth before the king, And, nephew, challenged you to single fight.
Not serve his turne, Sir?
Do right unto this princely Duke of York, Or I will fill the house with armed men, And over the chair of state, where now he sits, Write up his title with usurping blood.

Yea, and so used it that, were it not here apparent that thou art heir apparent But, I prithee, sweet wag, shall there be gallows  standing in England when thou art king? and resolution thus fobbed as it is with the rusty curb of old father antic the law? Do not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no? A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day. That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
The people fear me; for they do observe Unfather'd heirs and loathly births of nature: The seasons change their manners, as the year Had found some months asleep and leap'd them over.
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
Soldier, thou art: but his whole action grows Not in the power on't: so our leader's led, And we are women's men.
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down And rest your gentle head upon her lap, And she will sing the song that pleaseth you And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep, Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness, Making the difference 'twixt wake and sleep As is the difference betwixt day and night The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team Beg'ns his golden progress in the east.
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear All your true followers out.
As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle. And is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
I would be sorry, my lord, but it should be thus: I never knew yet but rebuke and check was the reward of valor. Do you think me a swallow, an arrow, or a bullet? have I, in my poor and old motion, the expedition  of thought? I have speeded hither with the very extremest inch of possibility; I have foundered nine score and odd posts: and here, travel-tainted as I am, have, in my pure and immaculate valour, taken Sir John Colevile of the dale, a most furious knight and valorous enemy. But what of that? he saw me, and yielded; that I may justly say, with the hooknosed  fellow of Rome, 'I came, saw, and overcame. 
I'll try you on the shore.
Your ships are not well mann'd; Your mariners are muleters, reapers, people Ingross'd by swift impress; in Csar's fleet Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought: Their ships are yare; yours, heavy: no disgrace Shall fall you for refusing him at sea, Being prepared for land.
Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth, That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him? Will he conduct you through the heart of France, And make the meanest of you earls and dukes? Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to; Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil, Unless by robbing of your friends and us. Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar, The fearful French, whom you late vanquished, Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you? Methinks already in this civil broil I see them lording it in London streets, Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet. Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy. To France, to France, and get what you have lost; Spare England, for it is your native coast: Henry hath money, you are strong and manly; God on our side, doubt not of victory.
I do love nothing in the world so well as you: is not that strange?
O monstrous! but one half-penny- worth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack! What there is else, keep close; we'll read it at more advantage: there let him sleep till day. I'll to the court in the morning. We must all to the wars, and thy place shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a charge of foot; and I know his death will be a march of twelve-score. The money shall be paid back again with advantage. Be with me betimes in the morning; and so, good morrow, Peto.
What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son? hath he provided this music?
God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some gentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinate scratched face.
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor know how she should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
Ah woe is me, for Gloucester, wretched man!
Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
Mort du vinaigre! is not this Helen?
Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
Would I were with him!   He would always say-- Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them, To grow there and to bear,--'Let me not live,'-- This his good melancholy oft began, On the catastrophe and heel of pastime, When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he, 'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses All but new things disdain; whose judgements are Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd: I after him do after him wish too, Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home, I quickly were dissolved from my hive, To give some labourers room.
We will not meddle with him till he come; for his presence must be the whip of the other.
Yea; I thank your pretty sweet wit for it. But look you pray, all you that kiss my lady Peace at home, that our armies join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts out with me, and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily: if it be a hot day, and I brandish any thing but a bottle, I would I might never spit white again. There is not a dangerous action can peep out his head but I am thrust upon it: well, I cannot last ever: but it was alway yet the trick of our English nation, if they have a good thing, to make it too common. If ye will needs say I am an old man, you should give me rest. I would to God my name were not so terrible to the enemy as it is: I were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with per- petual motion.
Indeed I think the young king loves you not.
Both, both. O, pardon!
I did never see such pitiful rascals.
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I were but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.
Rarely, rarely: He that unbuckles this, till we do please To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm. Thou fumblest, Eros; and my queen's a squire More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love, That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st The royal occupation! thou shouldst see A workman in't. Good morrow to thee; welcome: Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge: To business that we love we rise betime, And go to't with delight.
Then shall we have a match.   I have letters sent me That set him high in fame.
Prick him.
Great and increasing: but by sea He is an absolute master.
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to thy sovereign.
Good fortune and the favour of the king Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief, And be perform'd to-night: the solemn feast Shall more attend upon the coming space, Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her, Thy love's to me religious; else, does err. 
If he do, sure, he cannot weep't back again.
A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd. But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
Welcome, Jack: where hast thou been?
For that he dares us to't.
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice, Your grace's title shall be multiplied.
The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought: Is all your strict preciseness come to this?
Every time Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
Fly, father, fly!  for all your friends are fled, And Warwick rages like a chafed bull: Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing would make it flame again: for the nobles receive so to heart the banishment of that worthy Coriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to take all power from the people and to pluck from them their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can tell you, and is almost mature for the violent breaking out.
Ah, Warwick!   Montague hath breathed his last; And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.' And more he would have said, and more he spoke, Which sounded like a clamour in a vault, That mought not be distinguishe'd; but at last I well might hear, deliver'd with a groan, 'O, farewell, Warwick!'
O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine; And in this vow do chain my soul to thine! And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face, I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to thee, Thou setter up and plucker down of kings, Beseeching thee, if with thy will it stands That to my foes this body must be prey, Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope, And give sweet passage to my sinful soul! Now, lords, take leave until we meet again, Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be; For in thy shoulder do I build my seat, And never will I undertake the thing Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting. Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester, And George, of Clarence: Warwick, as ourself, Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
True; and yet it is said, labour in thy vocation; which is as much to say as, let the magistrates be labouring men; and therefore should we become magistrates.
Thine's too thick to shine.
Boskos vauvado; I understand thee, and can speak thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy faith, for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
Would I had never seen her.
What's his name?
That he should die is worthy policy; But yet we want a colour for his death; 'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
Can we outrun the heavens? good Margaret, stay.
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
The price is to ask it kindly.
And so shall you, If happy England's royal king be free.
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
Forsooth, five years, and as much as to
O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago, and wert taken with the manner, and ever since thou hast blushed extempore.   Thou hadst fire and sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what instinct hadst thou for it?
I am Robert Shallow, sir: a poor esquire  of this county, and one of the king's justices  of the peace: what is your good pleasure with me?
Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal; 'tis no sin for a man to labour in his vocation. Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match. O, if men were to be saved by merit, what hole in hell were hot enough for him?   This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand' to a true man.
Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel--
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted, Thou call'dst me king.
But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
Go hang theyself in thine own heirapparent  garters! If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. An I have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison: when a jest is so forward, and afoot too! I hate it.
Good night. Enter Soothsayer. 
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth; Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before! This is close dealing. Well, I will be there. My Nell, I take my leave: and, master sheriff, Let not her penance exceed the king's commission.
I am sure I saw her wear it.
They are return'd, my lord, and give it out That he is march'd to Bourdeaux with his power, To fight with Talbot: as he march'd along, By your espials were discovered Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led, Which joined with him and made their march for Bourdeaux.
No, truly; it is more than manners will: And I have heard it said, unbidden guests Are often welcomest when they are gone.
He must think us some band of strangers i' the adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we speak one to another; so we seem to know, is to know straight our purpose: choughs' language, gabble enough, and good enough. As for you, interpreter, you must seem very politic.  But couch, ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep, and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
They are all in order and march toward us.
Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as great a prince as you are.
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man? Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear! Look, as I blow this feather from my face, And as the air blows it to me again, Obeying with my wind when I do blow, And yielding to another when it blows, Commanded always by the greater gust; Such is the lightness of you common men. But do not break your oaths; for of that sin My mild entreaty shall not make you guilty. Go where you will, the king shall be commanded; And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
Put in two hundred at least.
Your right depends not on his life or death.
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
Madam, for myself, to heaven I do appeal, How I have loved my king and commonweal: And, for my wife, I know not how it stands; Sorry I am to hear what I have heard: Noble she is, but if she have forgot Honour and virtue and conversed with such As, like to pitch, defile nobility, I banish her my bed and company And give her as a prey to law and shame, That hath dishonour'd Gloucester's honest name.
If the great gods be just, they shall assist The deeds of justest men.
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand in hand, in sad conference: I whipt me behind the arras; and there heard it agreed upon that the prince should woo Hero for himself, and having obtained her, give her to Count Claudio.
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick! Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen; And haste is needful in this desperate case. Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf Go levy men, and make prepare for war; They are already, or quickly will be landed: Myself in person will straight follow you. But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague, Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest. Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance: If it be so, then both depart to him; Tell me if you love Warwick more than me? I rather wish you foes than hollow friends: But if you mind to hold your true obedience, Give me assurance with some friendly vow, That I may never have you in suspect.
We have, my liege.
Good brother, as thou lovest and honourest arms, Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son, And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere.
'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds, Could send such message to their sovereign: But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd, To show how quaint an orator you are: But all the honour Salisbury hath won Is that he was the lord ambassador Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king.
Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio, to undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue?
Nay, but, Beatrice,
Ha! Again: Said he young Harry Percy's spur was cold? Of Hotspur Coldspur? that rebellion Had met ill luck?
What an arm he has! he turned me about with his finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
A pox on him, he's a cat still.
The clerk of Chatham: he can write and read and cast accompt.
I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear I recovered it.
Csar? I shall.
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count.
These fellows will do well, Master Shallow. God keep you, Master Silence: I will not use many words with you. Fare you well, gentlemen both: I thank you: I must a dozen mile to-night. Bardolph, give the soldiers coats.
Come, shall we hear this music?
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the greater that I am subdued. Would the cook were of my mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done?
Three, my most gracious lord.
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that, Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
You have not given him his mother's letter?
He never put on  a  cleane shirt since he was circumcis'd.
All France will be replete with mirth and joy, When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness. Here's his lordship now. How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart Will not confess he owes the malady That doth my life besiege.   Farewell, young lords; Whether I live or die, be you the sons Of worthy Frenchmen: let higher Italy,-- Those bated that inherit but the fall Of the last monarchy,--see that you come Not to woo honour, but to wed it: when The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek, That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses, That shall maintain what I have said is true, Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
If we compose well here, to Parthia: Hark, Ventidius.
With him, we may.
This is old: what is the success ?
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have better told.
It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
A   marvellous poor one.
Lords, view these letters full of bad mischance. France is revolted from the English quite, Except some petty towns of no import: The Dauphin Charles is crowned king in Rheims; The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd; Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part; The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
God save your grace!
List, list!
Well, thou wilt be horribly chid tomorrow  when thou comest to thy father: if thou love me, practise an answer.
Wilt thou be lord of all the world ?
It will not be accepted, on my life: The Douglas and the Hotspur both together Are confident against the world in arms.
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth on 't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched him like a carbonado.
I love not many words.
Pray God she prove not masculine ere long, If underneath the standard of the French She carry armour as she hath begun.
Gelidus timor occupat artus, it is thee I fear.
Those same noble Scots That are your prisoners,
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia. Where Csar fought with Pompey: but these offers, Which serve not for his vantage, he shakes off; And so should you.
I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber-window.
Well, you must now speak Sir John
Falstaff fair; Which swims against your stream of quality.
O monstrous traitor!   I arrest thee, York, Of capital treason 'gainst the king and crown: Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling card.
I know not what the success will be, my lord; but the attempt I vow.
What's thine own name?
And long live thou and these thy forward sons!
Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head, And rear it in the place your father's stands. And now to London with triumphant march, There to be crowned England's royal king: From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France, And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen: So shalt thou sinew both these lands together; And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again; For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt, Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears. First will I see the coronation; And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea, To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother, Let me request you off: our graver business Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part; You see we have burnt our cheeks: strong Enobarb Is weaker than the wine; and mine own tongue Splits what it speaks: the wild disguise hath almost Antick'd us all. What needs more words ? Good night. Good Antony, your hand.
Was not Count John here at supper?
I am glad to see your worship.
I would the state of time had first been whole Ere he by sickness had been visited: His health was never better worth than now.
Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
Well met here.
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy, By whose approach the regions of Artois, Wallon and Picardy are friends to us, This happy night the Frenchmen are secure, Having all day caroused and banqueted: Embrace we then this opportunity As fitting best to quittance their deceit Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.
Wherefore? wherefore?
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
It hath its  original from much grief, from study and perturbation of the brain: I have read the cause of his effects in Galen: it is a kind of deafness.
All is lost; This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me: My fleet hath yielded to the foe; and yonder They cast their caps up and carouse together Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore! 'tis thou Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly; For when I am revenged upon my charm, I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone. O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more: Fortune and Antony part here; even here Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets On blossoming Csar; and this pine is bark'd, That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am: O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm, Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home; Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end, Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose, Beguiled me to the very heart of loss. What, Eros, Eros! Enter CLEOPATRA.  Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe? Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to thee: the money is paid back again.
The gods be good unto us!
If I, my lord, for my opinion bleed, Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt And keep me on the side where still I am.
Troth master  ,  Mr.  I'm loth such a pot of pottage should be spoyld.
Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment? that parchment, being scribbled o'er, should undo a man?   Some say the bee stings: but I say, 'tis the bee's wax; for I did but seal once to a thing, and I was never mine own man since. How now! who's there?
Marry, this it is, sir.
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
I think, by some odd gimmors or device Their arms are set like clocks, still to strike on; Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do. By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
This is mine opinion: that King Lewis Becomes your enemy for mocking him About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
My father was attached, not attainted, Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor; And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset, Were growing time once ripen'd to my will. For your partaker Pole and you yourself I'll note you in my book of memory, To scourge you for this apprehension: Look to it well and say you are well warn'd.
Why, this is to have a name in great men's fellowship: I had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself, And sit thee by our side: yield not thy neck To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind Still ride in triumph over all mischance. Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief; It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves The scourge of greatness to be used on it; And that same greatness too which our own hands Have holp to make so portly.
Be it so. Here is return'd my Lord of Westmoreland.
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected: If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
And leave my followers here to fight and die? My age was never tainted with such shame.
You take pleasure then in the message?
All! I know not what you call all; but if I fought not with fify of them, I am a bunch of radish: if there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old Jack, then am I no two-legged creature.
Your grace of York, in God's name, then, set forward.
Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers And seek how we may prejudice the foe.
Now, by God's will, thou wrongst him, Somerset; His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence, Third son to the third Edward King of England: Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
I shall observe him with all care and love.
'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it; After he scores, he never pays the score: Half won is match well made; match, and well make it; He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before; And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this, Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss: For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it, Who pays before, but not when he does owe it. Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear, PAROLLES.'
So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
I told him gently of our grievances, Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus, By now forswearing that he is forsworn: He calls us rebels, traitors; and will scourge With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
Well, thou hast called her to a reckoning  many a time and oft.
I have done my duty.
Enough, I am engaged; I will challenge him. I will kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Claudio shall render me a dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your cousin: I must say she is dead: and so, farewell.
Set we our squadrons on yond side o' the hill, In eye of Csar's battle; from which place We may the number of the ships behold, And so proceed accordingly.
Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou not suspect my years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an ass; though it be not written down, yet forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of piety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness. I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer, and, which is more, a householder, and, which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to; and a rich fellow enough, go to; and a fellow that hath had losses, and one that hath two gowns and every thing handsome about him. Bring him away. O that I had been writ down an ass!
No quarrel, but a slight contention.
'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
Such is his noble purpose; and, believe 't, The duke will lay upon him all the honour That good convenience claims.
Speaks Suffolk as he thinks?
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete, That taught his son the office of a fowl! And yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
Well said, good woman's tailor! well said, courageous Feeble! thou wilt be as valiant as the wrathful dove or most magnanimouse. Prick the woman's tailor: well, Master Shallow; deep, Master Shallow.
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't; It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither: I am so lated in the world, that I Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship Laden with gold; take that, divide it; fly, And make your peace with Csar.
Fare you well, boy: you know my mind. I will leave you now to your gossiplike humor: you break jests as braggards do their blades, which God be thanked, hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank you: I must discontinue your company: your brother the bastard is fled from Messina: you have among you killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet: and, till then, peace be with him.
Not, indeed: He hence removed last night and with more haste Than is his use.
What! I do bring good news.
A certain queen to Csar in a mattress.
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a power that we have no power to do; for if he show us his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful, were to make a monster of the multitude; of the which we being members, should bring ourselves to be monstrous members.
Dost thou hear, Hal? thou knowest in the state of innocency Adam fell; and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of villany?   Thou seest I have more flesh than another man, and therefore more frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone: Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York, And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge, Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
Is that his answer ?
Welcome, lady.
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
Be gone, good ancient: this will grow to a brawl anon.
Let me alone to urge it now I know the meaning.
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire; and the master I speak of ever keeps a good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the world; let his nobility remain in's court.   I am for the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be too little for pomp to enter: some that humble themselves may; but the many will be too chill and tender, and they'll be for the flowery way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
No, my good lord; he is in presence here.
Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake. Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK, with MARGARET in his hand. 
Thy state is taken for a joined-stool, thy golden sceptre for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful bald crown!
His eye is hollow, and he changes much.
That which is now a horse, even with a thought The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct, As water is in water.
In faith, he is a worthy gentleman, Exceedingly well read, and profited In strange concealments, valiant as a lion And wondrous affable and as bountiful As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin? He holds your temper in a high respect And curbs himself even of his natural scope When you come 'cross his humour; faith, he does: I warrant you, that man is not alive Might so have tempted him as you have done, Without the taste of danger and reproof: But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
If you shall prove This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence, Where yet she never was. 
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
I am satisfied. Csar sits down in Alexandria; where I will oppose his fate. Our force by land Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy too Have knit again, and fleet, threatening most sea-like. Where hast thou been, my heart ? Dost thou hear, lady ? If from the field I shall return once more To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood; I and my sword will earn our chronicle: There's hope in't yet.
Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious Richard.
Hot livers and cold purses.
But yet I would your father had been here. The quality and hair of our attempt Brooks no division: it will be thought By some, that know not why he is away, That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence: And think how such an apprehension May turn the tide of fearful faction And breed a kind of question in our cause; For well you know we of the offering side Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement, And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence The eye of reason may pry in upon us: This absence of your father's draws a curtain, That shows the ignorant a kind of fear Before not dreamt of.
Stoop then and set your knee against my foot; And, in reguerdon of that duty done, I gird thee with the valiant sword of York: Rise, Richard, like a true Plantagenet, And rise created princely Duke of York.
Enjoy thy plainness, It nothing ill becomes thee. Aboard my galley I invite you all: Will you lead, lords ?
Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend Till your deeds gain them: fairer prove your honour Than in my thought it lies.
The southern wind Doth play the trumpet to his purposes, And by his hollow whistling in the leaves Foretells a tempest and a blustering day.
Stand.
And shall have your will, because our king: Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband.
Look on my George; I am a gentleman: Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
It is an honour 'longing to our house, Bequeathed down from many ancestors; Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world In me to lose.
By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we shall have good trading that way. But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible afeard? thou being heir-apparent, could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower?   Art thou not horribly afraid? doth not thy blood thrill at it?
What news, my friend?
An I might see you there, Davy,-
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine in buckram   that I told thee of
Four, Hal; I told thee four.
My blood hath been too cold and temperate, Unapt to stir at these indignities, And you have found me; for accordingly You tread upon my patience: but be sure I will from henceforth rather be myself, Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition; Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down, And therefore lost that title of respect Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
That's our offer.
Worth six on him.
I am content: Richard Plantagenet, Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
Is't come to that?   I had thought weariness durst not have attached one of so high blood.
Fare you well; go. This Doll Tearsheet should be some road.
Sir John Falstaff!
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee! I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next, To tear the garter from thy craven's leg, Which I have done, because unworthily Thou wast installed in that high degree. Pardon me, princely Henry and the rest: This dastard, at the battle of Patay, When but in all I was six thousand strong And that the French were almost ten to one, Before we met or that a stroke was given, Like to a trusty squire did run away: In which assault we lost twelve hundred men; Myself and divers gentlement beside Were there surprised and taken prisoners. Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss; Or whether that such cowards ought to wear This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
I mean, the fashion.
I cannot weep; for all my body's moisture Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart: Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen; For selfsame wind that I should speak withal Is kindling coals that fires all my breast, And burns me up with flames that tears would quench. To weep is to make less the depth of grief: Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me! Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death, Or die renowned by attempting it.
I say no more than truth, so help me God!
My lord, I'll yield myself to prison willingly, Or unto death, to do my country good.
No more words: let's have her.
Doth any name particular belong Unto the lodging where I first did swoon?

Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
I am glad of it. Health to my lord and gentle cousin, Mowbray.
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet you writ to Diana in behalf  of the Count Rousillon? an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you: but fare you well.
It was, my lord; who lined himself with hope, Eating the air on promise of supply, Flattering himself in project of a power Much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts: And so, with great imagination Proper to madmen, led his powers to death And winking leap'd into destruction.
What money is in my purse?
My lord, here are letters for you.
You'd make a rich Poet, Sir. I am gone.
I'll blast his harvest, if your head were laid; For yet I am not look'd on in the world. This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave; And heave it shall some weight, or break my back: Work thou the way,--and thou shalt execute.
Here, sir.
He need not fear the sword; for his coat is of proof.
Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence: We met him thitherward; for thence we came, And, after some dispatch in hand at court, Thither we bend again.
How now, Sir John! what are you brawling here? Doth this become your place, your time and business? You should have been well on your way to York. Stand from  him, fellow: wherefore hang'st upon him?
O monstrous!
So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss He were created knight for his good service.
Why, thou owest God a death.
Many good morrows to your majesty!
Follow the knave; and take this drab away.
You lie, ye rogue; 'tis going to the king's tavern.
Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the duke Hath banish'd moody discontented fury, As by his smoothed brows it doth appear: Why look you still so stern and tragical?
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates? Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee, Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy? And he shall pardon thee these outrages.
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
Signior, hang! base muleters of France! Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord. Now, by God's mother, priest, I'll shave your crown for this, Or all my fence shall fail.
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats. Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
Madam, he's married to Octavia.
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are ill-rooted already; the least wind i' the world will blow them down.
Hang him, truant! there's no true drop of blood in him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad, he wants money.
Father, I warrant you; take you no care; I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them. Enter, on the turrets, the LORDS SALISBURY
   and TALBOT, SIR WILLIAM GLANDSDALE, SIR THOMAS GARGRAVE, and others. 
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
It does, my lord.
My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
Two of them did, the prince and Claudio; but the devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander that Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged; swore he would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night and send her home again without a husband.
I will confess what I know without constraint: if ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
'Tis not a time For private stomaching.
Nay, she must be old; she cannot choose but be old; certain she's old; and had Robin Nightwork by old Nightwork before I came to Clement's Inn.
And shall my youth be guilty of such blame? No more can I be sever'd from your side, Than can yourself yourself in twain divide: Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I; For live I will not, if my father die.
Say to me, Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Csar's or mine ?
So God help Montague as he proves true.
And I take him to be valiant.
This is my king, York, I do not mistake; But thou mistakest me much to think I do: To Bedlam with him! is the man grown mad?
Away! thou'rt a knave.
Out, ye rogue!  shall I be your ostler?
Then further, all dissembling set aside, Tell me for truth the measure of his love Unto our sister Bona.
Sit, sir.
Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.
One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly! the other, that she's in earth, from whence God send her quickly!
Come, come, you she knight  errant, come.
Your hostages I have, so have you mine; And we shall talk before we fight.
I 'll see her damned first; to Pluto's damned lake, by this hand, to the infernal deep, with Erebus and tortures vile also. Hold hook and line, say I. Down, down, dogs! down, faitors! Have we not Hiren here ?
Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
Women and children of so high a courage, And warriors faint! why, 'twere perpetual shame. O brave young prince thy famous grandfather Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live To bear his image and renew his glories!
Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas' clerks, I'll give thee this neck.
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Be thou a prey unto the house of York, And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
I shall obey his will. You must not marvel, Helen, at my course, Which holds not colour with the time, nor does The ministration and required office On my particular.  Prepared I was not For such a business; therefore am I found So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you That presently you take your way for home; And rather muse than ask why I entreat you, For my respects are better than they seem And my appointments have in them a need Greater than shows itself at the first view To you that know them not.   This to my mother: 'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so I leave you to your wisdom.
Ha, ha, ha! most excellent, i' faith! things that are mouldy lack use: very singular good! in faith, well said, Sir John, very well said.
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence; railed at herself, that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her: 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I should flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I love him, I should.'
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire Have cost a mass of public treasury.
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
He loved his mother dearly.
Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
Do you like him, Sir John?
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves humours since the old days of goodman Adam to the pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight. What's o'clock, Francis?
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
Coriolanus banished!
Where lay the king last night?
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him: conclude, conclude he is in love.
You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too old.
You'll heat my blood: no more.
No marvel, an it like your majesty, My lord protector's hawks do tower so well; They know their master loves to be aloft And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
Take her by the hand, And tell her she is thine; to whom I promise A counterpoise, if not to thy estate A balance more replete.
Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost; That Maine which by main force Warwick did win, And would have kept so long as breath did last? Main chance, father, you meant; but I meant Maine, Which I will win from France, or else be slain.
But when goes this forward?
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
Marriage, uncle! alas, my years are young! And fitter is my study and my books Than wanton dalliance with a paramour, Yet call the ambassadors; and, as you please. So let them have their answers every one: I shall be well content with any choice Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
My lord?
I can see yet without spectacles and I see no such matter: there's her cousin, an she were not possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
Enobarbus, welcome!
O Csar, This Charmian lived but now; she stood and spake: I found her trimming up the diadem On her dead mistress; tremblingly she stood And on the sudden dropp'd.
That would I know too: I warrant one that knows him not.
Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
I'll tell thee what, prince; a college of wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humor. Dost thou think I care for a satire or an epigram? No: if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say against it; and therefore never flout at me for what I have said against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee; but in that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruised and love my cousin.
Indeed, I am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather; but yet no coward, Hal.
Let me see, sirra, are you not an old shaver?
Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
How now, Sir William! whither were you sent?
To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently. Rise up Sir John Mortimer. [Rises] Now have at him! Enter SIR HUMPHREY STAFFORD and his Brother, with drum and soldiers. 
Ha! Marcius coming home!
At your service.
O, ay: stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits. I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
God's my life, where's the sexton? let him write down the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them. Thou naughty varlet!
What else? and that succession be determined.
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
Please it your majesty, this is the man That doth accuse his master of high treason: His words were these: that Richard Duke of York Was rightful heir unto the English crown And that your majesty was an usurper.
How now! is Somerset at liberty? Then, York, unloose thy long-imprison'd thoughts, And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart. Shall I endure the sight of Somerset? False king! why hast thou broken faith with me, Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse? King did I call thee? no, thou art not king, Not fit to govern and rule multitudes, Which darest not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor. That head of thine doth not become a crown; Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff, And not to grace an awful princely sceptre. That gold must round engirt these brows of mine, Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear, Is able with the change to kill and cure. Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up And with the same to act controlling laws. Give place: by heaven, thou shalt rule no more O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
Save you, good madam.
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race, I lay me down a little while to breathe: For strokes received, and many blows repaid, Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength, And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
O cheerful colours! see where Oxford comes!
Come hither, Francis.
Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne, And could command no more content than I? No sooner was I crept out of my cradle But I was made a king, at nine months old. Was never subject long'd to be a king As I do long and wish to be a subject.
He has a cloud in 's face.
How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge. Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee; And as I thrust thy body in with my sword, So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell. Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels Unto a dunghill which shall be thy grave, And there cut off thy most ungracious head; Which I will bear in triumph to the king, Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all
God bless thy lungs, good knight.
O, how this discord doth afflict my soul Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold My sighs and tears and will not once relent? Who should be pitiful, if you be not? Or who should study to prefer a peace, If holy churchmen take delight in broils?
Call in the sheriff. Enter Sheriff and the Carrier. 
But small to greater matters must give way.
Belike 'tis but a rumor. Good night to you.
You have made me offer Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I must Rid all the sea of pirates; then, to send Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon To part with unhack'd edges, and bear back Our targes undinted.
Now, signior, what news?
Captain, I will.
An't please your worship, there's one Pistol come from the court with news.
O miserable age! virtue is not regarded in handicrafts-men.
Did he break out into tears?
No question of that; for I have seen him whipped three market-days together.
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
Health, peace, and happiness to my royal father!
Not I: I tell thee what, Corporal Bardolph, I could tear her: I 'll be revenged of her.
Are these thy bears? we'll bait thy bears to death, And manacle the bear-ward in their chains, If thou darest bring them to the baiting place.
Yea, sir. The rascal's drunk: you have hurt him, sir, i' the shoulder.
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am falsely accused by the villain.
Anon, anon, sir. Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves. what things are we!
My lord, I found the prince in the next room. Washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks, With such a deep demeanor in great sorrow That tyranny, which never quaff'd but blood, Would, by beholding him, have wash'd his knife With gentle eye-drops. He is coming hither.
I am his king, and he should bow his knee; I was adopted heir by his consent: Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear, You, that are king, though he do wear the crown, Have caused him, by new act of parliament, To blot out me, and put his own son in.
Thine's too heavy to mount.
Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me, I thank them for their tender loving care; And had I not been cited so by them, Yet did I purpose as they do entreat; For, sure, my thoughts do hourly prophesy Mischance unto my state by Suffolk's means: And therefore, by His majesty I swear, Whose far unworthy deputy I am, He shall not breathe infection in this air But three days longer, on the pain of death.
Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
'Tis one of those odd tricks which sorrow shoots Out of the mind.
Here, madam.
Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord!   Well, I must be patient; there is no fettering of authority. I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double a lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I would of-- I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
Most noble sir, arise; the queen approaches: Her head's declined, and death will seize her, but Your comfort makes the rescue.
My soul and body on the action both!
Did he not, contrary to form of law, Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
My lord, the man I know.
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
But yet, before we go, let's not forget The noble Duke of Bedford late deceased, But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen: A braver soldier never couched lance, A gentler heart did never sway in court; But kings and mightiest potentates must die, For that's the end of human misery.
Are these things then necessities? Then let us meet them like necessities: And that same word even now cries out on us: They say the bishop and Northumberland Are fifty thousand strong.
If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the gaols and let out the prisoners.
As good! Thou bastard of my grandfather!
Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
To punish you by the heels would amend the attention of your ears; and I care not if I do become your physician.
Nay, this way, man: see where the huntsmen stand. Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest, Stand you thus close, to steal the bishop's deer?
Ah, sirrah! quoth-a, we shall Do nothing but eat, and make good cheer, And praise God for the merry year; When flesh is cheap and females dear, And lusty lads roam here and there So merrily, And ever among so merrily.
Yes.
Nay, he can make obligations, and write court-hand.
Farewell.   Come hither to me.
We thank you, maiden; But may not be so credulous of cure, When our most learned doctors leave us and The congregated college have concluded That labouring art can never ransom nature From her inaidible estate; I say we must not So stain our judgement, or corrupt our hope, To prostitute our past-cure malady To empirics, or to dissever so Our great self and our credit, to esteem A senseless help which help past sense we deem.
Suffolk, arise.   Welcome, Queen Margaret: I can express no kinder sign of love Than this kind kiss. O, Lord, that lends me life, Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness! For thou hast given me in this beauteous face A world of earthly blessings to my soul, If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
Moon and stars! Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries That do acknowledge Csar, should I find them So saucy with the hand of she here,what's her name, Since she was Cleopatra ? Whip him, fellows, Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face, And whine aloud for mercy: take him hence.
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along, Of force enough to bid his brother battle; With whom an upright zeal to right prevails More than the nature of a brother's love! Come, Clarence, come; thou wilt, if Warwick call.
And I will do so.
I shall, my Lord.
By this light, I am well spoke on; I can hear it with mine own ears: the worst that they can say of me is that I am a second brother and that I am a proper fellow of my hands; and those two things, I confess, I cannot help. By the mass, here comes Bardolph.
Amen.
Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
Come, wife, let's in, and learn to govern better; For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
Base slave, thy words are blunt and so art thou.
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
What is that wrong whereof you both complain? First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
Hath the Prince John a full commission, In very ample virtue of his father, To hear and absolutely to determine Of what conditions we shall stand upon?
Lose our drum! well.
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey? Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
Cease, gentle queen, these execrations And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
What, cardinal, is your priesthood grown peremptory? Tantne animis clestibus ir? Churchmen so hot? good uncle, hide such malice; With such holiness can you do it?
Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates, Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
Anon, sir.
Nay, that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine.
A hundred thousand rebels die in this: Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein. How now, good Blunt? thy looks are full of speed.
Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge; For, on their answer, will we set on them: And God befriend us, as our cause is just!
Do not, my lord.
Nay, if we be forbidden stones, we'll fall to it with our teeth.
To flatter Csar, would you mingle eyes With one that ties his points ?
Will not you?
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused gurnet. I have misused the king's press damnably. I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me none but good householders,  yeomen's sons; inquire me out contracted  bachelors, such as had been asked twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves, as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum; such as fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no bigger than pins' heads, and they have bought out their services;  and now my whole charge consists of ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his sores; and such as indeed were never soldiers, but discarded unjust serving-men, younger sons to younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers trade-fallen, the cankers of a calm world and a long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than an old faced ancient: and such have I, to fill up the rooms of them that have bought out their services, that you would think that I had a hundred and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies.  No eye hath seen such scarcecrows. I'll not march through Coventry with them, that's flat: nay, and the villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had gyves on; for indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There's but a shirt and a half in all my company; and the half shirt is two napkins  tacked together and thrown over the shoulders like a herald's coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say the truth, stolen from my host at Saint Alban's, or the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry.   But that's all one; they'll find linen enough on every hedge.
In argument and proof of which contract, Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection. And so, my lord protector, see them guarded And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp'd Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God, king of England and France, and lord of Ireland, &c.
Let him appear that's come from Antony. Know you him ?
Pardon me, sir; I have heard the word. Phrase call you it? by this good day, I know not the phrase; but I will maintain the word with my sword to be a soldier-like word, and a word of exceeding good command, by heaven. Accommodated; that is, when a man is, as they say, accommodated; or when a man is, being, whereby a' may be thought to be accommodated; which is an excellent thing. 
Ascend, brave Talbot; we will follow thee.
I am your shadow, my lord; I'll follow you.
Mock not, Enobarbus. I tell you true: best you safed the bringer Out of the host; I must attend mine office, Or would have done't myself. Your emperor Continues still a Jove.
Egypt, thou knew'st too well My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings, And thou shouldst tow me after: o'er my spirit Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods Command me.
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear; For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head, And wring the awful sceptre from his fist, Were he as famous and as bold in war As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy wit?
Thou darest not, for thy own.
Fly, to revenge my death, if I be slain.
Although before the solemn priest I have sworn, I will not bed her.
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.
An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in the time of good neighbors. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps.
Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk aside with me: I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
All's done, all's won; here breathless lies the king.
I should have known no less. It hath been taught us from the primal state, That he which is was wish'd until he were; And the ebb'd man, ne'er loved till ne'er worth love, Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body, Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream, Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide, To rot itself with motion.
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
My lord, in Athens.
Anon, anon, sir.
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
By heaven, Poins, I feel me much to blame, So idly to profane the precious time, When tempest of commotion, like the south Borne with black vapor, doth begin to melt And drop upon our bare unarmed heads. Give me my sword and cloak. Falstaff, good night.
I'll no more drumming; a plague of all drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy the count, have I run into this danger.   Yet who would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
Here enter'd Pucelle and her practisants; Now she is there, how will she specify Where is the best and safest passage in?
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
My daughter weeps: she will not part with you; She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
Lepidus is high-colored.
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
Should I lie, madam?
No more o' that; I prithee, do not strive against my vows: I was compell'd to her; but I love thee By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever Do thee all rights of service.
Hadst thou done so, The kings that have revolted, and the soldier That has this morning left thee, would have still Follow'd thy heels.
Marry, this: Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March, Married the Duke of Clarence's daughter, did he not?
Peace! stir not.
In your protectorship you did devise Strange tortures for offenders never heard of, That England was defamed by tyranny.
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail. Assail them with the army of the king.
So God help Warwick, as he loves the land, And common profit of his country!
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse, You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost All that which Henry the Fifth had gotten? Methink these peers of France should smile at that. But for the rest, you tell a pedigree Of threescore and two years; a silly time To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
If the cook help to make the gluttony, you help to make the diseases, Doll: we catch of you, Doll, we catch of you; grant that, my poor virtue, grant that.
Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me: the brain of this foolish-compounded clay, man, is not able to invent anything that tends to laughter, more than I invent or is invented on me: I am not only witty in myself, but the cause that wit is in other men. I do here walk before thee like a sow that hath overwhelmed all her litter but one. If the prince put thee into my service for any other reason than to set me off, why then I have no judgement. Thou whoreson mandrake, thou art fitter to be worn in my cap than to wait at my heels. I was never manned with an agate till now: but I will inset you neither in gold nor silver, but in vile apparel, and send you back again to your master,--the juvenal, the prince your master,  whose chin is not yet fledged. I will sooner have a beard grow in the palm of my hand than he shall get one on his cheek; and yet he will not stick to say his face is a face-royal: God may finish it when he will, 'tis not a hair amiss yet: he may keep it still at a face-royal, for a barber shall never earn sixpence out of it; and yet he'll be crowing as if he had writ man ever since his father was a bachelor. He may keep his own grace, but he's almost out of mine, I can assure him. What said Master Dombledon about the satin for my short cloak and my slops?
We do it not alone, sir.
What sayest thou, Mistress Quickly ? How doth thy husband?  I love him well; he is an honest man.
Villains, answer you so the lord protector?
Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance?
Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool Art thou to break into this woman's mood, Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
Now, Eros.
My king! my Jove! I speak to thee, my heart!
I cannot think, my lord, your son is dead.
Have you turned him out o' doors?
If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.
I think his understanding is bereft. Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee? Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life, And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina.
Forty let it be: My father and Glendower being both away, The powers of us may serve so great a day. Come, let us take a muster speedily: Doomsday is near; die all, die merrily.
Noble friends, That which combined us was most great, and let not A leaner action rend us. What's amiss, May it be gently heard: when we debate Our trivial difference loud, we do commit Murder in healing wounds: then, noble partners, The rather, for I earnestly beseech, Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms, Nor curstness grow to the matter.
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life.
Unready! ay, and glad we 'scaped so well.
What of him? He's quoted for a most perfidious slave, With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd; Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth. Am I or that or this for what he'll utter, That will speak any thing?
A kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces truer than those that are so washed. How much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
Take thou the mony, spend it for my sake.
I thank thee, Clifford: say, what news with thee? Nay, do not fright us with an angry look: We are thy sovereign, Clifford, kneel again; For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
Thou judgest false already: I mean, thou shalt have the hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
That, having this obtain'd, you presently Attend his further pleasure.
Well, we leave that to the proof.
Warwick may live to be the best of all.
Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his own peril on his forwardness.
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently. Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain The execution of my big-swoln heart Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
Why, then, good morrow to you all, my lords. Have you read o'er the letters that I sent you?
Time calls upon's: Of us must Pompey presently be sought, Or else he seeks out us.
I cannot now speak: I will hear you soon. Take them away.
It is very just. Look, here comes good Sir John. Give me your good hand, give me your worship's good hand: by my troth, you like well and bear your years very well: welcome, good Sir John.
And so am I; my name is Walter Whitmore. How now! why start'st thou? what, doth death affright?
It is entered.
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my powers. Soldiers, I thank you all; disperse yourselves; Meet me to-morrow in Saint George's field, You shall have pay and every thing you wish. And let my sovereign, virtuous Henry, Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons, As pledges of my fealty and love; I'll send them all as willing as I live: Lands, goods, horse, armour, any thing I have, Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so for running!
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate: Whither I go, thither shall you go too; To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you. Will this content you, Kate?
Sir ?
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest man i' the world.
So hath the business that I come to speak of. Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word That Douglas and the English rebels met The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury: A mighty and a fearful head they are, If promises be kept on every hand, As ever offer'd foul play in a state.
O Lord, I would it had been two!
It would be every man's thought; and thou art a blessed fellow to think as every man thinks: never a man's thought in the world keeps the road-way better than thine: every man would think me an hypocrite indeed. And what accites your most worshipful thought to think so?
in our king's behalf, I am commanded, with your leave and favour, Humbly to kiss your hand and with my tongue To tell the passion of my sovereign's heart; Where fame, late entering at his heedful ears, Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
Let us score their backs, And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind: 'Tis sport to maul a runner.
That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame: I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands, Nor posted off their suits with slow delays; My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds, My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs, My mercy dried their water-flowing tears; I have not been desirous of their wealth, Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies, Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd: Then why should they love Edward more than me? No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace: And when the lion fawns upon the lamb, The lamb will never cease to follow him.
These three world-sharers, these competitors, Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable; And, when we are put off, fall to their throats: All there is thine.
For both, my lord.
Alas, master, I know not.
But, Warwick, Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men, Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle; And as occasion serves, this noble queen And prince shall follow with a fresh supply. Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt, What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
What, with five thousand men?
Nay, then.
My liege, I did deny no prisoners. But I remember, when the fight was done, When I was dry with rage and extreme toil, Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword, Came there a certain lord, neat, and trimly dress'd, Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd Show'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home; He was perfumed like a milliner; And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held A pouncet-box, which ever and anon He gave hos nose and took 't away again; Who therewith angry, when it next came there, Took it in snuff; and still he smiled and talk'd, And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by, He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly, To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse Betwixt the wind and his nobility, With many holiday and lady terms He question'd   me; amongst the rest, demanded My prisoners in your majesty's behalf. I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold, To be so pester'd with a popinjay. Out of my grief and my impatience, Answer'd neglectingly I know not what, He should, or he should not; for he made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman Of guns and drums and wounds,God save the mark! And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth Was parmaceti for an inward bruise; And that it was great pity, so it was, This villanous salt-petre should be digg'd Out of the bowels of the harmless earth, Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd So cowardly; and but for these vile guns, He would himself have been a soldier. This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord, I answer'd indirectly, as I said; And I beseech you, let not his report Come current for an accusation Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence? Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
Here, sir.
One word, sir: our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined before your worship.
Yes, and his ill conditions; and, in despite of all, dies for him.
My lord and brother, God save you!
Ho ! says a'. There's my cap.
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath. I know by that he's dead; and, by my soul, If this right hand would buy two hours' life, That I in all despite might rail at him, This hand should chop it off, and with the issuing blood Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it? I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay, Nor ever had one penny bribe from France. So help me God, as I have watch'd the night, Ay, night by night, in studying good for England, That doit that e'er I wrested from the king, Or any groat I hoarded to my use, Be brought against me at my trial-day! No; many a pound of mine own proper store, Because I would not tax the needy commons, Have I dispursed to the garrisons, And never ask'd for restitution.
Away with him, away with him; he speaks Latin.
Good my Lord of Lancaster, I am not here against your father's peace; But, as I told my Lord of Wesmoreland, The time misorder'd doth, in common sense, Crowd us and crush us to this monstrous form, To hold our safety up. I sent your grace The parcels and particulars of our grief, The which hath been with scorn shoved from the court, Whereon his Hydra son of war is born; Whose dangerous eyes may well be charm'd asleep With grant of our most just and right desires, And true obedience, of this madness cured, Stoop tamely to the foot of majesty.
By him that made me, I'll maintain my words On any plot of ground in Christendom. Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge, For treason executed in our late king's days? And, by his treason, stand'st not thou attainted, Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry? His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood; And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.
Sirs, take away the duke, and guard him sure.
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
Not honestly, my lord; but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me.
It appears so by the story.
And this withal.
The queen with all the northern earls and lords Intend her to besiege you in your castle: She is hard by with twenty thousand men; And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
Or climbe up to my Counting-house window: you know my meaning.
Away! get you away.
'Faith, and I'll send him packing.
I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon comes this night to Messina.
Look, here she comes.
What shall be done to him?
My Lord of York, I promise you, the king Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
Death of one person can be paid but once, And that she has discharged: what thou wouldst do Is done unto thy hand: the last she spake Was 'Antony ! most noble Antony !' Then in the midst a tearing groan did break The name of Antony; it was divided Between her heart and lips: she render'd life, Thy name so buried in her.
Let's beat him before his whore.
To be sure of that, I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky, That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for Thy dearest quit thee.
Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great, 'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more; But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft As captain shall: simply the thing I am Shall make me live.   Who knows himself a braggart, Let him fear this, for it will come to pass That every braggart shall be found an ass. Rust, sword! cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive! There's place and means for every man alive. I'll after them.
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity my case. The spite of man prevaileth against me. O Lord, have mercy upon me!   I shall never be able to fight a blow. O Lord, my heart!
Come, come, to the purpose: did he love this woman?
Farewell, captain.
'When Arthur first in court' --Empty the jordan. [Singing]  'And was a worthy king.' How now, Mistress Doll!
You are a villain; I jest not: I will make it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have killed a sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear from you.
Warwick! Gloucester! Clarence!
Answer, thou dead elm, answer.
Then to the point. In short time after, he deposed the king; Soon after that, deprived him of his life; And in the neck of that, task'd the whole state; To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman March, Who is, if every owner were well placed, Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales, There without ransom to lie forfeited; Disgraced me in my happy victories, Sought to entrap me by intelligence; Rated mine uncle from the council-board; In rage dismiss'd my father from the court; Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong, And in conclusion drove us to seek out This head of safety; and withal to pry Into his title, the which we find Too indirect for long continuance.
Be a child o' the time.
Hark, hark, my lord! what shouts are these?
Bosko chimurcho.
I must not think there are Evils enow to darken all his goodness: His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven, More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary, Rather than   purchased; what he cannot change, Than what he chooses.
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
Doth the man of war stay all night, sir ?
And you that love the commons, follow me. Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty. We will not leave one lord, one gentleman: Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon; For they are thrifty honest men and such As would, but that they dare not, take our parts.
Do so: I 'll not be by.
Go to; well.
Then you perceive the body of our kingdom How foul it is; what rank diseases grow. And with what danger, near the heart of it.
Is there any way to show such friendship?
I know thou dost.
I saw him not.
I am able to endure much.
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw, And what thou think'st his very action speaks In every power that moves.
No, no, my lord. Note this; the king is weary Of dainty and such picking grievances: For he hath found to end one doubt by death Revives two greater in the heirs of life, And therefore will he wipe his tables clean And keep no tell-tale to his memory That may repeat and history his loss To new remembrance; for full well he knows He cannot so precisely weed this land As his misdoubts present occasion: His foes are so enrooted with his friends That, plucking to unfix an enemy, He doth unfasten so and shake a friend: So that this land, like an offensive wife That hath enraged him on to offer strokes, As he is striking, holds his infant up And hangs resolved correction in the arm That was uprear'd to execution.
What horse? a roan, a crop-ear, is it not?
O master, that you could!
Ay, four, in buckram suits.
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
Well, what would you say?
O monstrously eleven buckram men grown out of two!
I would you would accept of grace and love.
The head of Cade!   Great God, how just art Thou! O, let me view his visage, being dead, That living wrought me such exceeding trouble. Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
Sir, a word with you: I have three pound to free Mouldy and Bullcalf.
Honest gentleman, I know not yourbreeding.
I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord, Be more myself.
Once more we sit in England's royal throne, Re-purchased with the blood of enemies. What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn, Have we mow'd down in tops of all their pride! Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd For hardy and undoubted champions; Two Cliffords, as the father and the son, And two Northumberlands; two braver men Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound; With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague, That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion And made the forest tremble when they roar'd. Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat And made our footstool of security. Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy. Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night, Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat, That thou mightst repossess the crown   in peace; And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
I shall do well: The people love me, and the sea is mine; My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope Says it will come to the full. Mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make No wars without doors: Csar gets money where He loses hearts: Lepidus flatters both, Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves, Nor either cares for him.
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him out o' the house: prithee, call my master to him.
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up his heart, upon the river of Cydnus.
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words,
York, if thou meanest well, I greet thee well.
Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick, Let me embrace thee in my weary arms: I, that did never weep, now melt with woe That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
A plague upon them! wherefore should I curse them? Would curses kill, as doth the mandrake's groan, I would invent as bitter-searching terms, As curst, as harsh and horrible to hear, Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth, With full as many signs of deadly hate, As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave: My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words; Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint; Mine hair be fix'd on end, as one distract; Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban: And even now my burthen'd heart would break, Shall I not curse them!   Poison be their drink! Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste! Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees! Their chiefest prospect murdering basilisks! Their softest touch as smart as lizards' stings! Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss, And boding screech-owls make their concert full! All the foul terrors in deep-seated hell--
Good tidings, my Lord Hastings; for the which I do arrest thee, traitor, of high treason: And you, lord archbishop, and you, lord Mowbray, Of capital treason I attach you both.
Ay, uncle, we will keep it, if we can; But now it is impossible we should: Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast, Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
Away, Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not, I care not for thee, Kate: this is no world To play with mammets and to tilt with lips: We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns, And pass them current too. God's me, my horse! What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thou have with me?
O, wert thou for myself!   But, Suffolk, stay; Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth; There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk. Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise: Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount, And natural graces that extinguish art; Repeat their semblance often on the seas, That when thou comest to kneel at Henry's feet, Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.
What talk you of debating? in few words, If you'll not here proclaim yourself our king, I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone To keep them   back that come to succour you: Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
The king himself is to be feared as the lion: dost thou think I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? nay, an I do, I pray God my girdle break.
You had more beard when I last saw you; but your favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the news in Rome?   I have a note from the Volscian state, to find you out there: you have well saved me a day's journey.
But I have reasons strong and forcible.
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
In a most weak-- and debile minister, great power, great transcendence: which should, indeed, give us a further use to be made than alone the recovery of the king, as to be-- [pausing] generally thankful. 
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
Come, bring away the plaintiffs: by this time our sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter: and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an ass.
We, John Cade, so termed of our supposed father,--
'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'?   A drum so lost! There was excellent command, --to charge in with our horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears; Have fought with equal fortune and continue
Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
O, bear me witness, night,
Welcome, brave duke! thy friendship makes us fresh.
Good, very good; it is so then:  good, very good; let it be concealed awhile.
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them. What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
We'll feast each other ere we part; and let's Draw lots who shall begin.
What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
The scars upon your honor, therefore, he Does pity, as constrained blemishes, Not as deserved.
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be consul, I have here the customary gown.
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer, But dare maintain the party of the truth, Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
Yes, my lord, yes; he at Philippi kept His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas I That the mad Brutus ended: he alone Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practice had In the brave squares of war: yet nowNo matter.
I think you are fallen into the disease; for you hear not what I say to you.
Make thy demand.
My masters of Saint Alban's, have you not beadles in your town, and things called whips?
Now sirra, what shall we doe with the Admirall?
And therefore will come. [Sings] 
Neither; 'tis a woman's fault.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
My voice is ragged: I know I cannot please you.
You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your daughter.
I know you well, sir, and you know me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
The queen shall then have courtesy, so she Will yield us up.
Good day, my lord:   What, at your book so hard?
Truly, by your office, you may; but I think they that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
Who is it  ?    Bernardine ? now out alas, He is slaine.
O slaves, I can tell you news. news, you rascals!
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird, Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun: For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say; Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
Sirrah, or you must fight, or else be hang'd.
I pray thee, lend me thine.
How have I sworn!
How is that?
Come, sir, come; I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love : Look, here I have you; thus I let you go, And give you to the gods.
Ha, ha, ha! you can do it, sir; you can do it: I commend you well. Francis Feeble!
How! poor? look upon his face; what call you rich? let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks: I'll not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker of me? shall I not take mine ease in mine inn but I shall have my pocket picked?   I have lost a seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
And, in the number, thee that wishest shame!
I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's displeasure.
The rebels are in Southwark; fly, my lord! Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer, Descended from the Duke of Clarence' house, And calls your grace usurper openly And vows to crown himself in Westminster. His army is a ragged multitude Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless: Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother's death Hath given them heart and courage to proceed: All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen, They call false caterpillars and intend their death.
And so they are.
Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly: Your loss is great, so your regard should be; My worth unknown, no loss is known in me. Upon my death the French can little boast; In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost. Flight cannot stain the honour you have won; But mine it will, that no exploit have done: You fled for vantage, every one will swear; But, if I bow, they'll say it was for fear. There is no hope that ever I will stay, If the first hour I shrink and run away. Here on my knee I beg mortality, Rather than life preserved with infamy.
Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed, And shall become you well, to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech.
I look for an earthquake too, then.
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks May concern Csar.
Gentle Octavia, Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honor, I lose myself: better I were not yours Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested, Yourself shall go between 's: the mean time, lady, I'll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste; So your desires are yours.
I know not how they sold themselves: but thou, like a kind fellow, gavest thyself away gratis; and I thank thee for thee.
I'll call him presently, my noble lord.
Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell,  All-hallown summer!
I am dying, Egypt, dying; only I here importune death awhile, until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay upon thy lips.
And he's as like to do 't as any man I can imagine.
I will tell you. The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne, Burn'd on the water: the poop was beaten gold; Purple the sails, and so perfumed that The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made The water which they beat to follow faster, As amorous of their strokes. For her own person, It beggar'd all description: she did lie In her pavilioncloth-of-gold of tissue O'er-picturing that Venus where we see The fancy outwork nature: on each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids, With divers-color'd fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool, And what they undid did.
O, Charles the Dauphin is a proper man; No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
I think thou'rt mad. The matter ?
No, sir, I warrant you.
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony; Take from   his heart, take from his brain, from's time, What should not then be spared. He is already Traduced for levity; and 'tis said in Rome That Photinus an eunuch and your maids Manage this war.
Not I: No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity To sunder them t hat yoke so well together.
Letters from him; why comes he not himself?
The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day; With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster; For ths advertisement is five days old: On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward; On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march Through Gloucestershire; by which account, Our business valued, some twelve days hence Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet. Our hands are full of business: let's away; Advantage feeds him fat, while men delay.
That roan shall be my throne. Well, I will back him straight: O esperance! Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
Hardly serve.
I wish you all joy of the worm.
Nay, you shall see my orchard, where, in an arbour, we will eat a last year's pippin of my own graffing, with a dish of caraways, and so forth: come, cousin Silence: and then to bed.
I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much skill in grass.
Gracious sovereign, Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not: Here's a petition from a Florentine, Who hath for four or five removes come short To tender it herself. I undertook it, Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech Of the poor suppliant, who by this I know Is here attending: her business looks in her With an importing visage; and she told me, In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern Your highness with herself. 
My lord, he will drive you out of your revenge and turn all to a merriment, if you take not the heat.
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
What man is this?
Alack, our terrene moon Is now eclipsed; and it portends alone The fall of Antony!
Then linger not, my lord; away, take horse.
There's letters from my mother: what the import is, I know not yet.
Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell. Go thou toward home; where I will never come Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum. Away, and for our flight.
The Queen this day here holds her parliament, But little thinks we shall be of her council: By words or blows here let us win our right.
That was not to be blamed in the command of the service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could not have prevented, if he had been there to command.
And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave. Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right Of English Henry, shall this night appear How much in duty I am bound to both.
What, what, what? let's partake.
Csar, I bring thee word, Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates, Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound With keels of every kind: many hot inroads They make in Italy; the borders maritime Lack blood to think on 't, and flush youth revolt: No vessel can peep forth, but 'tis as soon Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more Than could his war resisted.
What, and wouldst climb a tree?
If he be sick with joy, he 'll recover  without physic.
Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream.
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it, You love the breeder better than the male. But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Peace, cousin, say no more: And now I will unclasp a secret book, And to your quick-conceiving discontents I'll read you matter deep and dangerous, As full of peril and adventurous spirit As to o'er-walk a current roaring loud On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
'Twas sent me for a present from the great Cham .
What would you have?
A married man! that's most intolerable.
I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have friends for my wife's sake.
Fair Margaret knows That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
He does, he does: we'll be revenged on him.
I am sorry for't: the man is a proper man, of mine honour; unless I find him guilty, he shall not die. Come hither, sirrah, I must examine thee: what is thy name?
Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too: Other offenders we will pause upon. How goes the field?
I can speak English, lord, as well as you; For I was train'd up in the English court; Where, being but young, I framed to the harp Many an English ditty lovely well And gave the tongue a helpful ornament, A virtue that was never seen in you.
Is he gone ?
Richard hath best deserved of all my sons. But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
This weighty business will not brook delay; I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage?
Come hither, neighbor Seacole. God hath blessed you with a good name: to be a well-favored man is the gift of fortune: but to write and read comes by nature.
Yea, or to paint himself? for the which, I hear what they say of him.
He is dead, Csar; Not by a public minister of justice, Nor by a hired knife; but that self hand, Which writ his honor in the acts it did, Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it, Splitted the heart. This is his sword; I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd With his most noble blood.
Go, call before me all the lords in court. Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side; And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive The confirmation of my promised gift, Which but attends thy naming. Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing, O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice I have to use: thy frank election make; Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
Cousin, I think thou art enamoured On his follies: never did I hear Of any prince, so wild a libertine. But be he as he will, yet once ere night I will embrace him with a soldier's arm, That he shall shrink under my courtesy. Arm, arm with speed: and, fellows, soldiers, friends, Better consider what you have to do Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue, Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
Then my lord, Unto your grace do I in chief address The substance of my speech. If that rebellion Came like itself, in base and abject routs, Led on by bloody youth, guarded with rags, And countenanced by boys and beggary, I say, if damn'd commotion so appear'd, In his true, native and most proper shape, You, reverend father, and these noble lords Had not been here, to dress the ugly form Of base and bloody insurrection With your fair honors. You, lord archbishop, Whose see is by a civil peace maintain'd, Whose beard the silver hand of peace hath touch'd, Whose learning and good letters peace hath tutor'd, Whose white investments figure innocence, The dove and very blessed spirit of peace, Wherefore do you so ill translate yourself Out of the speech of peace that bears such grace, Into the harsh and boisterous tongue of war; Turning your books to graves, your ink to blood, Your pens to lances and your tongue divine To a loud trumpet and a point of war?
I leave an arrant knave with your worship; which I beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others. God keep your worship! I wish your worship well; God restore you to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry meeting may be wished, God prohibit it! Come, neighbor.
Officers, what offence have these men done?
Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
The stronger part of it by her own letters, which makes her story true, even to the point of her death: her death itself, which could not be her office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by the rector of the place.
The man from Sicyon, is there such an one ?
Yet, for all this, say not that Percy's dead. I see a strange confession in thine eye: Thou shakest thy head and hold'st it fear or sin To speak a truth. If he be slain, say so; The tongue offends not that reports his death: And he doth sin that doth belie the dead, Not he which says the dead is not alive. Ye the first bringer of unwelcome news, Hath but a losing office, and his tongue Sounds ever after as a sullen bell, Remember'd tolling a departing friend.
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly, I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
Well, that's set down. 'You shall demand of him, whether one Captain Dumain be i' the camp, a Frenchman; what his reputation is with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not possible, with well-weighing sums of gold, to corrupt him to a revolt.' What say you to this? what do you know of it?
Away with scrupulous wit! now arms must rule.
Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
What, doth my Lord of Suffolk comfort me? Came he right now to sing a raven's note, Whose dismal tune bereft my vital powers; And thinks he that the chirping of a wren, By crying comfort from a hollow breast, Can chase away the first-conceived sound? Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words; Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say; Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting. Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight! Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny Sits in grim majesty, to fright the world. Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding: Yet do not go away: come, basilisk, And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight; For in the shade of death I shall find joy; In life but double death, now Gloucester's dead.
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving, And blemish Csar's triumph. Let him take thee. And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians: Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown For poor'st diminutives, for doits; and let Patient Octavia plough thy visage up With her prepared nails. 'Tis well thou'rt gone, If it be well to live; but better 'twere Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death Might have prevented many. Eros, ho ! The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me, Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' the moon; Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage: And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club, Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die: To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall Under this plot; she dies for't. Eros, ho! Exit. 
So is all her sect; and they be once in a calm, they are sick.
No worse than they are backbitten, sir; for they have marvellous foul linen.
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York, To be the post, in hope of his reward.
Now, sirrah; you do wish yourself in Egypt ?
Ay; is't not strange?
This will I carry to Rome.
A most manly wit, Margaret; it will not hurt a woman: and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice: I give thee the bucklers.
I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone: Ambitious love hath so in me offended, That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon, With sainted vow my faults to have amended. Write, write, that from the bloody course of war My dearest master, your dear son, may hie: Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far His name with zealous fervour sanctify: His taken labours bid him me forgive; I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth From courtly friends, with camping foes to live, Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth: He is too good and fair for death and me; Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.
Come hither, you that would be combatants: Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour, Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause. And you, my lords, remember where we are; In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation: If they perceive dissension in our looks And that within ourselves we disagree, How will their grudging stomachs be provoked To wilful disobedience, and rebel! Beside, what infamy will there arise, When foreign princes shall be certified That for a toy, a thing of no regard, King Henry's peers and chief nobility Destroy'd themselves, and lost the realm of France! O, think upon the conquest of my father, My tender years, and let us not forego That for a trifle that was bought with blood! Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife. I see no reason, if I wear this rose, That any one should therefore be suspicious I more incline to Somerset than York; Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both: As well they may upbraid me with my crown, Because, forsooth, the king of Scots is crown'd. But your discretions better can persuade Than I am able to instruct or teach: And therefore, as we hither came in peace, So let us still continue peace and love. Cousin of York, we institute your grace To be our regent in these parts of France: And, good my Lord of Somerset, unite Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot; And, like true subjects,sons of your progenitors, Go cheerfully together and digest Your angry choler on your enemies. Ourself, my lord protector and the rest After some respite will return to Calais; From thence to England; where I hope ere long To be presented, by your victories, With Charles, Alencon and that traitorous rout. [Flourish. Exeunt all but York, Warwick,
Exeter and Vernon. 
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come To end the one of us; and would to God Thy name in arms were now as great as mine !
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair; Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us: What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
Why do you say 'thwack our general'?
Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still; And know us by these colours for thy foes, For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.
The people know it; and have now received His accusations.
Let me shake thy hand; I never hated thee: I have seen thee fight, When I have envied thy behavior.
Never speak: we charge you let us obey you to go with us.
I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that is the next way to give poor jades the bots: this house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died.
La fin couronne les uvres.
My dear master, My captain, and my emperor, let me say, Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
Let them alone awhile, and then open the door. Poins! Re-enter POINS. 
I'll about it this evening: and I will presently pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation; and by midnight look to hear further from me.
Let him appear. These strong Egyptian fetters I must break, Or lose myself in dotage. What are you ?
I like them all, and do allow them well, And swear here, by the honor of my blood, My father's purposes have been mistook, And some about him have too lavishly Wrested his meaning and authority. My lord, these griefs shall be with speed redress'd; Upon my soul, they shall. If this may please you, Discharge your powers unto their several counties, As we will ours: and here between the armies Let's drink together friendly and embrace, That all their eyes may bear those tokens home Of our restored love and amity.
He alter'd much upon the hearing it.
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France, We come to be informed by yourselves What the conditions of that league must be.
I have no tongue, sir.
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
No more, Pistol; I would not have you go off here: discharge yourself of our company, Pistol.
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes: his grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it.
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick; And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice To rest mistrustful where a noble heart Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love; Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother, Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings: But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine. And now what rests but, in night's coverture, Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd, His soldiers lurking in the towns about, And but attended by a simple guard, We may surprise and take him at our pleasure? Our scouts have found the adventure very easy: That as Ulysses and stout Diomede With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents, And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds, So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle, At unawares may beat down Edward's guard And seize himself; I say not, slaughtering him, For I intend but only to surprise him. You that will follow me to this attempt, Applaud the name of Henry with your leader. Why, then, let's on our way in silent sort: For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George! [Exeunt. 
Had York and Somerset brought rescue in, We should have found a bloody day of this.
By my troth, I was not there.
Why should you sigh, my lord?
Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
Most absolute lord, My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan! It irks his heart he cannot be revenged. Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you: Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish, Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels, And make a quagmire of your mingled brains. Convey me Salisbury into his tent, And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me Set from our o'ermatch'd forces forth for aid.
My lord?
Away, I say; I charge ye, bear her hence.
No, Antony, take the lot: but, first Or last, your fine Egyptian cookery Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Csar Grew fat with feasting there.
His qualities being at this poor price, I need not to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his bounty to sing happiness to him I will tell you a thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
Our overplus of shipping will we burn; And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium Beat the approaching Csar. But if we fail, We then can do't at land. Thy business ?
And I again, in Henry's royal name, As deputy unto that gracious king, Give thee her hand, for sign of plighted faith.
No; fifteen hundred foot, five hundred horse, Are march'd up to my lord of Lancaster, Against Northumberland and the Archbishop.
Ay, there's the question; but I say, 'tis true: The elder of them, being put to nurse, Was by a beggar-woman stolen away; And, ignorant of his birth and parentage, Became a bricklayer when he came to age: His son am I; deny it, if you can.
Iden, kneel down. Rise up a knight. We give thee for reward a thousand marks, And will that thou henceforth attend on us.
Didst thou?  Lord, Lord, how this world is given to lying! I grant you I was down and out of breath; and so was he: but we rose both at an instant and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be believed,  so; if not, let them that should reward valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the thigh: if the man were alive and would deny it, 'zounds, I would make him eat a piece of my sword.
The flat transgression of a school-boy, who, being overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his companion, and he steals it.
The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
Most worthy sir, you therein throw away The absolute soldiership you have by land; Distract your army, which doth most consist Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted Your own renowned knowledge; quite forego The way which promises assurance; and Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard, >From firm security.
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when you have seen the sequel.
Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous: Virtue is choked with foul ambition And charity chased hence by rancour's hand; Foul subornation is predominant And equity exiled your highness' land. I know their complot is to have my life, And if my death might make this island happy And prove the period of their tyranny, I would expend it with all willingness: But mine is made the prologue to their play; For thousands more, that yet suspect no peril, Will not conclude their plotted tragedy. Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice, And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate; Sharp Buckingham unburthens with his tongue The envious load that lies upon his heart; And dogged York, that reaches at the moon, Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back, By false accuse doth level at my life: And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest, Causeless have laid disgraces on my head And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up My liefest liege to be mine enemy: Ay, all of you have laid your heads together-- Myself had notice of your conventicles-- And all to make away my guiltless life. I shall not want false witness to condemn me, Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt; The ancient proverb will be well effected: 'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
I think I am as like to ride the mare, if I have any vantage of ground to get up.
It shall be so: I'll send her to my house, Acquaint my mother with my hate to her, And wherefore I am fled; write to the king Shall furnish me to those Italian fields, That which I durst not speak: his present gift Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife To the dark house and the detested wife.
Thou sayest true, hostess; and he slanders thee most grossly.
Good madam, patience.
None, but to desire your good company.
I cannot hope Csar and Antony shall well greet together: His wife that's dead did trespasses to Csar; His brother warr'd upon him; although, I think, Not moved by Antony.
I know that Deformed; a' has been a vile thief this seven year; a' goes up and down like a gentleman: I remember his name.
Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd; Like to a ship that, having 'scaped a tempest, Is straightway calm'd and boarded with a pirate: But now is Cade driven back, his men dispersed; And now is York in arms to second him. I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him, And ask him what's the reason of these arms. Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower; And, Somerset, we will commit thee thither, Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp Than with an old one dying.
A youth? I'le buy you, and marry you to Lady vanity, if you doe well.
Go charge Agrippa Plant those that have revolted in the van, That Antony may seem to spend his fury Upon himself.
And do it with all thy heart.
Because you talk of pride now,will you not be angry?
Why should this   Turke   be dearer then that  Moore  Moore  ?
'Tis, my good lord.
As I am a gentleman. Come, no more words of it.
Farewell, young lords; these warlike principles Do not throw from you: and you, my lords, farewell: Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain, all The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received, And is enough for both.
And reason too: Who should succeed the father but the son?
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give you our voices heartily.
With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing: By that time will our book, I think, be drawn.
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
What disease hast thou?
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy, The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me, That life, a very rebel to my will, May hang no longer on me: throw my heart Against the flint and hardness of my fault; Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder, And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony, Nobler than my revolt is infamous, Forgive me in thine own particular; But let the world rank me in register A master-leaver and a fugitive: O Antony !  O Antony!
God send the wench no worse fortune!   But I never said so.
Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens So in the earth, to this day not known: Late did he shine upon the English side; Now we are victors; and upon us he smiles. What towns of any moment but we have? At pleasure here we lie near Orleans; Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts, Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you shall read it in--what do ye call there?
Who, besides the slaughter of these Gentlemen, poyson'd his owne daughter and the Nuns, strangled a Fryar, and I know not what mischiefe beside.
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
Most probable That so she died; for her physician tells me She hath pursued conclusions infinite Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed; And bear her women from the monument: She shall be buried by her Antony: No grave upon the earth shall clip in it A pair so famous. High events as these Strike those that make them; and their story is No less in pity than his glory which Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall In solemn show attend this funeral; And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see High order in this great solemnity.
It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.
Nothing but well to thee, Thomas of Clarence. How chance thou art not with the prince thy brother? He loves thee, and thou dost neglect him, Thomas; Thou hast a better place in his affection Than all thy brothers: cherish it, my boy, And noble offices thou mayst effect Of mediation, after I am dead, Between his greatness and thy other brethren: Therefore omit him not; blunt not his love, Nor lose the good advantage of his grace By seeming cold or careless of his will; For he is gracious, if he be observed: He hath a tear for pity and a hand Open as day for melting charity: Yet notwithstanding, being incensed, he's flint, As humorous as winter and as sudden As flaws congealed in the spring of day. His temper, therefore, must be well observed: Chide him for faults, and do it reverently, When you perceive his blood inclined to mirth; But, being moody, give him line and scope, Till that his passions, like a whale on ground, Confound themselves with working. Learn this, Thomas, And thou shalt prove a shelter to thy friends, A hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in, That the united vessel of their blood, Mingled with venom of suggestion-- As, force perforce, the age will pour it in-- Shall never leak, though it do work as strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder.
Walk; let's see if other watchmen Do hear what we do?
Then go thou forth; And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm, As thy auspicious mistress!
Come then, away; let's ha' no more ado.
Are not you a coward? answer me to that: and Poins there?
And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
And Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee, Albeit considerations infinite Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no, We love our people well; even those we love That are misled upon your cousin's part; And, will they take the offer of our grace, Both he and they and you, yea, every man Shall be my friend again and I'll be his: So tell your cousin, and bring me word What he will do: but if he will not yield, Rebuke and dread correction wait on us And they shall do their office. So, be gone; We will not now be troubled with reply: We offer fair; take it advisedly.
All health unto my gracious sovereign!
But, by your leave, it never yet did hurt To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope.
Ha, ha, ha!
What means this noise? Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
All which time Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers To them for you.
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the married man'?
What one, i' faith?
Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men. Enter LAFEU. 
When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the grave of it.
The Tower, the Tower.
What of that?
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhile, and we'll debate By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
Let him be damned, like the glutton! pray God his tongue be hotter!   A whoreson Achitophel! a rascally yea-forsooth knave! to bear a gentleman in hand, and then stand upon security! The whoreson smooth-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes, and bunches of keys at their girdles; and if a man is through with them in honest taking up, then they must stand upon security. I had as lief they would put ratsbane in my mouth as offer to stop it with security. I looked a' should have sent me two and twenty yards of satin, as I am a true knight, and he sends me security. Well, he may sleep in security; for he hath the horn of abundance, and the lightness of his wife shines through it: and yet cannot he see, though he have his own lanthorn to light him. Where's Bardolph?
Fie! this is hot weather, gentlemen. Have you provided me here half a dozen sufficient men?
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent By what did here befal me. Your wife and brother Made wars upon me; and their contestation Was theme for you, you were the word of war.
Why let us burne him for  an  a  heretick.>
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly: the old man's daughter told us all.
Francis!
Hers it was not.
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
Make choice; and, see Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.
Madam, I have been bold to trouble you: But since your ladyship is not at leisure, I'll sort some other time to visit you.
The king hath call'd his parliament, my lord.
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York! Suppose that I am now my father's mouth; Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou, Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee, Which, traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
He's walking in the gardenthus; and spurns The rush that lies before him; cries, 'Fool Lepidus!' And threats the throat of that his officer That murder'd Pompey.
He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him, The noble Percy slain, and all his men Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest; And falling from a hill, he was so bruised That the pursuers took him. At my tent The Douglas is; and I beseech your grace I may dispose of him.
The bird that hath been limed in a bush, With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush; And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird, Have now the fatal object in my eye Where my poor young was limed, was caught and kill'd.
He hath.
And you.
Because he is young and has more qualities.
Both which I have had: but their date is out, and therefore I'll hide me.
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Let it shine, then.
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
Now comes in the sweetest morsel of the night, and we must hence and leave it un  picked. knocking at  the door! Re-enter BARDOLPH.  How now! what's the matter?
If you can, your reason ?
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk wine; but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known thee already.
So please your majesty, I would I could Quit all offences with as clear excuse As well as I am doubtless I can purge Myself of many I am charged withal: Yet such extenuation let me beg, As, in reproof of many tales devised, By smiling pick-thanks and base newsmongers, Which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear, I may, for some things true, wherein my youth Hath faulty wander'd and irregular, Find pardon on my true submission.
I am a poor man, and at your majesty's  command.
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods, Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together, Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off In differences so mighty. If she be All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest, A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest Of virtue for the name: but do not so: From lowest place when virtuous things proceed, The place is dignified by the doer's deed: Where great additions swell's, and virtue none, It is a dropsied honour. Good alone Is good without a name. Vileness is so: The property by what it is should go, Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair; In these to nature she's immediate heir, And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn, Which challenges itself as honour's born And is not like the sire: honours thrive, When rather from our acts we them derive Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave Debosh'd on every tomb; on every grave A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said? If thou canst like this creature as a maid, I can create the rest: virtue and she Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
Here, sir. d
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up? If Henry were recall'd to life again, These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king, In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho ? Here is to Csar!
Indeed, neighbor, he comes too short of you.
When such a spacious mirror's set before him, He needs must see himself.
Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee. What, are ye daunted now? now   will ye stoop?
Then to you, Mistress Dorothy; I will charge you.
Welcome from Egypt, sir.
What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
More than I seem, and less than I was born to: A man at least, for less I should not be; And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
Both he loves.
The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him! O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a tale. Have you writ down, that they are none?
How now, my lord chief-justice! whither away?
It is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato.
I should think this a gull, but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it: knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such reverence.
I, passing well.
May this be so?
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem Was made much poorer by it: but your son, As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know Her estimation home.
Gilty, my Lord, I confesse; your sonne and Mathias  var:#<I>Abigall</I>;] ~,#  var:#he] <I>omit</I> Q#  were both contracted unto Abigall  ;  ,   he   forg'd a counterfeit challenge.
Not now.
O passing traitor, perjured and unjust!
Who? God?
What would my lord ?
Why, so it would have done at the same season, if your mother's cat had but kittened , though yourself had never been born.
Forbear, Seleucus.
I know he doth not, and do arm myself To welcome the condition of the time, Which cannot look more hideously upon me Than I have drawn it in my fantasy. 
'Fore God, I would you would, Master  Shallow.
Away, away, good William de la Pole! We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
So should I give consent to flatter sin. You know, my lord, your highness is betroth'd Unto another lady of esteem: How shall we then dispense with that contract, And not deface your honour with reproach?
Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter: let it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
See, Buckingham, Somerset comes with the queen: Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you are, you must have the patience to hear it,
I sent for you, when there were matters against you for your life, to come speak with me.
And I do think she's thirty.
So help me God, as I intend it not!
Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd Thy maiden sword.
Holy seems the quarrel Upon your grace's part; black and fearful On the opposer.
At a word, I am not.
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an excellent sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion, she is virtuous.
I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot; And thou shalt find a king that will revenge Lord Stafford's death.  Enter HOTSPUR. 
What then, sir?
Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows. Sirrah, what's thy name?
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right, By this I challenge him to single fight.
Do you choose for me.
So might your grace's person be in danger. The sight of me is odious in their eyes; And therefore in this city will I stay And live alone as secret as I may.
It will determine one way: fare you well. Heard you of nothing strange about the streets ?
What! sigh for the toothache?
No more than my residing here at Rome Might be to you in Egypt: yet, if you there Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt Might be my question.
Sit,and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
What beast! why, an otter.
We have been guided by thee hitherto And of thy cunning had no diffidence: One sudden foil shall never breed distrust.
Will you sup with me, Master Gower?
Villains!
A woman's tailor, sir.
There's honour in the theft.
Upon my blessing, I command thee go.
Say, man, were these thy words?
'Tis one o'clock, and past.
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
What offence, sweet Beatrice?
How ill it follows, after you have labored so hard, you should talk so idly! Tell me, how many good young princes would do so, their fathers being so sick as yours at this time is?
What mean you, sir, To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep; And I, an ass, am onion-eyed: for shame, Transform us not to women.
Thou shalt be waking while I shed thy blood, If from this presence thou darest go with me.
Soft! who comes here?
Agreed: I'll to yond corner.
Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness? An army have I muster'd in my thoughts, Wherewith already France is overrun.
What, to York?   Call him back again.
To any count, to all counts, to what is man.
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower; For by that loss I will not purchase them.
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger: I'll steal away.
The king will bid you battle presently.
Hark thee hither, Mistress Doll.
He said, sir, you should procure him better assurance than Bardolph: he would not take his band and yours; he liked not the security.
Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
God knows, of pure devotion; being call'd A hundred times and oftener, in my sleep, By good Saint Alban; who said, 'Simpcox, come, Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Peace, mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs: Here's Beaufort, that regards not God nor king, Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
Then take, my Lord of Westmoreland, this schedule, For this contains our general grievances: Each several article herein redress'd, All members of our cause, both here and hence, That are insinew'd to this action, Acquitted by a true substantial form And present execution of our wills To us and to our purposes confined, We come within our awful banks again And knit our powers to the arm of peace.
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges! Small things make base men proud: this villain here, Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more Than Bargulus the strong Illyrian pirate. Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives: It is impossible that I should die By such a lowly vassal as thyself. Thy words move rage and not remorse in me: I go of message from the queen to France; I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.
I will not think it.
In buckram?
I laugh to see your ladyship so fond To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow Whereon to practise your severity.
Exceeding well; his cares are now all ended.
I hope to see London once ere I dvie.
Then this remains, that we our power. You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed, To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop, Who, as we hear, are busily in arms: Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales, To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March. Rebellion in this land shall lose his sway, Meeting the check of such another day: And since this business so fair is done, Let us not leave till all our own be won.
'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.
No.
What seest thou in me, York? why dost thou pause?
Is there no exorcist Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes? Is't real that I see?
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak His powerful sound within an organ weak: And what impossibility would slay In common sense, sense saves another way. Thy life 's dear; for all that life can rate Worth name of life in thee hath estimate, Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all That happiness and prime can happy call: Thou this to hazard needs and must intimate Skill infinite or monstrous desperate. Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try, That ministers thine own death if I die.
Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester: ere thou go, Give up thy staff: Henry will to himself Protector be; and God shall be my hope, My stay, my guide and lantern to my feet: And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved Than when thou wert protector to thy king.
Go call the Earls of Surrey and of Warwick; But, ere they come, bid them o'er-read these letters, And well consider of them; make good speed. How many thousand of my poorest subjects Are at this hour asleep! O sleep, O gentle sleep, Nature's soft nurse, how have I frighted thee, That thou no more wilt weigh my eyelids down And steep my senses in forgetfulness? Why rather, sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs, Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee And hush'd with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber, Than in the perfumed chambers of the great, Under the canopies of costly state, And lull'd with sound of sweetest melody? O thou dull god, why liest thou with the vile In loathsome beds, and leavest the kingly couch A watch-case or a common 'larum-bell? Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast Seal up the ship-boy's eyes, and rock his brains In cradle of the rude imperious surge And in the visitation of the winds, Who take the ruffian billows by the top, Curling their monstrous heads and hanging them With deafening clamour in the slippery clouds, That, with the hurly, death itself awakes? Canst thou. O partial sleep, give thy repose To the wet sea-boy in an hour so rude, And in the calmest and most stillest night, With all appliances and means to boot, Deny it to a king. Then happy low, lie down! Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown. Enter WARWICK and SURREY. 
Madam, I heard her speak; she is low-voiced.
What would you have, friend? whence are you? Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
Faith, I have been a truant in the law, And never yet could frame my will to it; And therefore frame the law unto my will.
Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march towards London.
A shorter time shall send me to you, lords: And in my conduct shall your ladies come; From whom you now must steal and take no leave, For there will be a world of water shed Upon the parting of your wives and you.
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go I toward Arragon.
And strange it is, That nature must compel us to lament Our most persisted deeds.
Put on two leathern jerkins and aprons, and wait upon him at his table as drawers.
Which is the Queen of Egypt?
The emperor calls Canidius.
Away with him, I say! hang him with his pen and ink-horn about his neck. Enter MICHAEL. 
When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
With all my heart.
Faith, there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings; And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
Have you perused the letters from the pope, The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac?
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way. Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory! March. Warwick and his company
follow.
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God! My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
How now, ambitious Humphrey! what means this?
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
Not all together: better far, I guess, That we do make our entrance several ways; That, if it chance that one of us do fail, The other yet may rise against their force.
Otherwise I'le confesse all  :  , 
Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this multitude?   The name of Henry the Fifth hales them to an hundred mischiefs and makes them leave me desolate. I see them lay their heads together to surprise me. My sword make way for me, for here is no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have through the very middest of you? and heavens and honour be witness that no want of resolution in me, but only my followers' base and ignominious treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
And why not queen?
Rather for feare then love.
You were called 'lusty Shallow' then, cousin.
Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son, Born to eclipse thy life this afternoon. Come, side by side together live and die; And soul with soul from France to heaven fly.
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse, good king's son.
Let them be whipped through every market-town, till they come to Berwick, from whence they came.
I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this dialogue between the fool and the soldier?   Come, bring forth this counterfeit module, has deceived me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought: I stay too long by thee, I weary thee. Dost thou so hunger for mine empty chair That thou wilt needs invest thee with my honors Before thy hour be ripe? O foolish youth! Thou seek'st the greatness that will overwhelm thee. Stay but a little; for my cloud of dignity Is held from falling with so weak a wind That it will quickly drop: my day is dim. Thou hast stolen that which after some few hours Were thine without offence; and at my death Thou hast seal'd up my expectation: Thy life did manifest thou lovedst me not, And thou wilt have me die assured of it. Thou hidest a thousand daggers in thy thoughts, Which thou hast whetted on thy stony heart, To stab at half an hour of my life. What!  canst thou not forbear me half an hour? Then get thee gone and dig my grave thyself, And bid the merry bells ring to thine ear That thou art crowned, not that I am dead. Let all the tears that should bedew my hearse Be drops of balm to sanctify thy head: Only compound me with forgotten dust; Give that which gave thee life unto the worms. Pluck down my officers, break my decrees; For now a time is come to mock at form: Harry the Fifth is crown'd: up, vanity! Down, royal state!  all you sage counsellors, hence! And to the English court assemble now, From every region, apes of idlenessl Now, neighbor confines, purge you of your scum: Have you a ruffian that will swear, drink, dance, Revel the night, rob, murder, and commit The oldest sins the newest kind of ways? Be happy, he will trouble you no more; England shall double gild his treble guilt, England shall give him office, honor, might; For the fifth Harry from curb'd license plucks The muzzle of restraint, and the wild dog Shall flesh his tooth on every innocent. O my poor kingdom, sick with civil blows! When that my care could not withhold thy riots, What wilt thou do when riot is thy care? O, thou wilt be a wilderness again, Peopled with wolves, thy old inhabitants!
What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
The army of the queen hath got the field: My uncles both are slain in rescuing me; And all my followers to the eager foe Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind Or lambs pursued by hunger-starved wolves. My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them: But this I know, they have demean'd themselves Like men born to renown by life or death. Three times did Richard make a lane to me, And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!' And full as oft came Edward to my side, With purple falchion painted to the hilt In blood of those that had encounter'd him: And when the hardiest warriors did retire, Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!' And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb! A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!' With this, we charged again: but, out, alas! We bodged again; as I have seen a swan With bootless labour swim against the tide And spend her strength with over-matching waves. Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue; And I am faint and cannot fly their fury: And were I strong, I would not shun their fury: The sands are number'd that make up my life; Here must I stay, and here my life must end. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, the young Prince, and Soldiers.  Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland, I dare your quenchless fury to more rage: I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
Here cometh Charles: I marvel how he sped. 
Harry the Fourth.
Look, look, here comes my John of Lancaster.
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never trust my expectation.
Hold thee, there's my purse; I give thee not this to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of; serve him still.
The best I can, my lord.
What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother; I'll hence to London on a serious matter: Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
In sign of truth, I kiss your highness' hand.
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust things; and, to conclude, they are lying knaves.
Ah! thus King Henry throws away his crutch Before his legs be firm to bear his body. Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first. Ah, that my fear were false   ah, that it were! For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.
 Your lady is forthcoming yet at London. This news, I think, hath turn'd your weapon's edge; 'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause to be glad of yours.
Well, for this night we will repose us here: To-morrow toward London back again, To look into this business thoroughly And call these foul offenders to their answers And poise the cause in justice' equal scales, Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
A prophet I, madam; and I speak the the truth the next way: For I the ballad will repeat, Which men full true shall find; Your marriage comes by dest'ny, Your cuckoo sings by kind.
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
Yea, but our valuation shall be such That every slight and false-derived cause, Yea, every idle, nice and wanton reason Shall to the king taste of this action; That, were our royal faiths martyrs in love, We shall be winnow'd with so rough a wind That even our corn shall seem as light as chaff And good from bad find no partition.
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood: I'll kill my horse, because I will not fly. Why stand we like soft-hearted women here, Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage; And look upon, as if the tragedy Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors? Here on my knee I vow to God above, I'll never pause again, never stand still, Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
Then swear allegiance to his majesty, As thou art knight, never to disobey Nor be rebellious to the crown of England, Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England. So, now dismiss your army when ye please; Hang up your ensigns, let your drums be still, For here we entertain a solemn peace.
Of it own color too.
Which now they hold by force and not by right; For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead, The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
But which are the offenders that are to be examined? let them come before master constable.
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. Let me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled to the prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined, I charge you, on your souls, to utter it.
Give Master Bardolph some wine,
Davy.
Your means are very slender, and your waste is great.
Both which we doubt not but your majesty Shall soon enjoy.
I have heard better news.
Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your name, friend?
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine does stand, I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word Straight, how 'tis like to go.
'Faith, and so we should; Where now remains a sweet reversion: We may boldly spend upon the hope of what Is to come in: A comfort of retirement lives in this.
This is strange now: do you two know how you are censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the right-hand file? do you?
Faith, walking the backe lanes through the Gardens I chanc'd to cast mine eye up to the Jewes counting-house where I saw some bags of mony, and in the night I clamber'd up with my hooks, and as I was taking my choyce, I heard a rumbling in the house; so I tooke onely this, and runne my way: but here's the Jews man.
But this is something odd.
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship  to make some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good lord: whom I serve above is my master.
Hear you, cousin; a word.
I have a suit unto your lordship.
Who would not have his wife so ?
The gaudy, blabbing and remorseful day Is crept into the bosom of the sea; And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades That drag the tragic melancholy night; Who, with their drowsy, slow and flagging wings, Clip dead men's graves and from their misty jaws Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air. Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize; For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs, Here shall they make their ransom on the sand, Or with their blood stain this discolour'd shore. Master, this prisoner freely give I thee; And thou that art his mate, make boot of this; The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.
Wilt thou believe me, Hal? three or four bonds of forty pound a-piece, and a seal-ring of my grandfather's.
What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall I give him his answer?
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
This Sir John, cousin, that comes hither anon about soldiers?
What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
Speak low, if you speak love.
Since Cleopatra died, I have lived in such dishonor, that the gods Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack The courage of a woman; less noble mind Than she which by her death our Csar tells 'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros, That, when the exigent should come, which now Is come indeed, when I should see behind me The inevitable prosecution of Disgrace and horror, that, on my command, Thou then wouldst kill me: do 't; the time is come: Thou strikest not me, 'tis Csar thou defeat'st. Put color in thy cheek.
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave. Hark! the trumpets. 
She is desperate here; a peevish self-will'd harlotry, one that no persuasion can do good upon.
Faith, it does me; though it dis- colors the complexion of my greatness to acknowledge it. Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer?
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword: By him that made us all, I am resolved That Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
Sir John, Sir John, do not yourself wrong: they are your likeliest men, and I would have you served with the best.
Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take you, to go in the song?
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I say, if he would incline to the people, there was never a worthier man.
Marry, we'll search.
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
I am dying, Egypt, dying: Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
On what submissive message art thou sent?
Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
O, would he did! and so perhaps he doth: 'Tis but his policy to counterfeit, Because he would avoid such bitter taunts Which in the time of death he gave our father.
'Tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb In the dead carrion. Who's here?   Westmoreland?
'Fore God, you have here a goodly dwelling and a rich.
You are a merciful general. Our general bids you answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
How were they lost? what treachery was used?
I am so full of businesses, I cannot answer thee acutely.   I will return perfect courtier; in the which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell.   When thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast none, remember thy friends: get thee a good husband, and use him as he uses thee; so farewell.
Dead.
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he delivers it.
An if he may. then am I lawful king; For Richard, in the view of many lords, Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth, Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
I'll have it so: a little charge will do it.
You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it: In Florence was it from a casement thrown me, Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed To mine own fortune and inform'd her fully I could not answer in that course of honour As she had made the overture, she ceased. In heavy satisfaction and would never Receive the ring again.
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong, And Somerset, with Oxford, fled to her: If she have time to breathe, be well assured Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that rewards me, God reward him!   If I do grow great, I'll grow less; for I'll purge, and leave sack, and live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland.
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be content to say it was for his country, he did it to please his mother, and to be partly proud; which he is, even to the altitude of his virtue.
What stuff wilt have a kirtle of?  I shall receive money o' Thursday: shalt have a cap to-morrow.  A merry song, come: it grows late; we'll to bed. Thou'lt forget me when I am gone.
He bears him on the place's privilege, Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
Make up to Clifton: I'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey. Enter HOTSPUR. 
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I Stay not for the love of Edward, but the crown.
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick, Which are so weak of courage and in judgement That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' the Nile By certain scales i' the pyramid; they know, By the height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth Or foison follow: the higher Nilus swells, The more it promises: as it ebbs, the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain, And shortly comes to harvest.
Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news for you: you have a new mistress.
But angry, wrathful, and inclined to blood, If you go forward; therefore yield, or die.
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
I think it be two o'clock.
An't please your lordship, I hear his majesty is returned with some discomfort from Wales.
Indeed, sir, to my cost.
Most subject is the fattest soil to weeds; And he, the noble image of my youth, Is overspread with them: therefore my grief Stretches itself beyond the hour of death: The blood weeps from my heart when I do shape In forms imaginary the unguided days And rotten times that you shall look upon When I am sleeping with my ancestors. For when his headstrong riot hath no curb, When rage and hot blood are his counsellors, When means and lavish manners meet together, O, with what wings shall his affections fly Towards fronting peril and opposed decay!
No; and swears she never will: that's her torment.
It is, my lord.
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that: an he had stayed by him, I would not have been so fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood, The honourable blood of Lancaster, Must not be shed by such a jaded groom. Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup? Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule And thought thee happy when I shook my head? How often hast thou waited at my cup, Fed from my trencher, kneel'd down at the board, When I have feasted with Queen Margaret? Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall'n, Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride; How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood And duly waited for my coming forth? The hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
I knew her well; she was a midwife.
I know you all, and will awhile uphold The unyoked humour of your idleness: Yet herein will I imitate the sun, Who doth permit the base contagious clouds To smother up his beauty from the world, That, when he please again to be himself, Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at, By breaking through the foul and ugly mists Of vapours that did seem to strangle him. If all the year were playing holidays, To sport would be as tedious as to work; But when they seldom come, they wish'd for come, And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents. So, when this loose behaviour I throw off And pay the debt I never promised, By how much better than my word I am, By so much shall I falsify men's hopes; And like bright metal on a sullen ground, My reformation, glittering o'er my fault, Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes Than that which hath no foil to set it off. I'll so offend, to make offence a skill; Redeeming time when men think least I will.
A proper gentlewoman, sir, and a kinswoman of my master's.
And work in their shirt too; as myself for example, that am a butcher.
Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord: I am a subject fit to jest withal, But far unfit to be a sovereign.
Will Csar weep ?
Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not; And thus most humbly I do take my leave. Enter SIR JOHN MORTIMER and SIR HUGH MORTIMER. 
Now, my good Lords of Salisbury and Warwick, Our simple supper ended, give me leave In this close walk to satisfy myself, In craving your opinion of my title, Which is infallible, to England's crown.
Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
See who it is: and, now the battle's ended, If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
He may mean more than we poor men do know: These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
Our present musters grow upon the file To five and twenty thousand men of choice; And our supplies live largely in the hope Of great Northumberland, whose bosom burns With an incensed fire of injuries.
E'en such as you speak to me.
Why, so I am, in mind; and that's enough.
Here is my hand; the premises observed, Thy will by my performance shall be served: So make the choice of thy own time, for I, Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely. More should I question thee, and more I must, Though more to know could not be more to trust, From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest. Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed. Exeunt.
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best, The proudest he that holds up Lancaster, Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells. I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares: Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
'Tis Gaultree Forest, an't shall please your grace.
Good morrow, cousin.
No more, no more: worse than the sun in March, This praise doth nourish agues.   Let them come; They come like sacrifices in their trim, And to the fire-eyed maid of smoky war All hot and bleeding will we offer them: The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh And yet not ours.   Come, let me taste my horse, Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales: Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse, Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse. O that Glendower were come!
My lord, prepare; the king comes on apace.
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator, Thou that contrivedst to murder our dear lord; Thou that givest whores indulgence to sin: I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat, If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
Belike she minds to play the Amazon. But what said Warwick to these injuries?
What say'st thou to her?
What, the commonwealth their boots?   will she hold out water in foul way?
O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts, My thoughts, that labour to persuade my soul Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life! If my suspect be false, forgive me, God, For judgement only doth belong to Thee. Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips With twenty thousand kisses and to drain Upon his face an ocean of salt tears, To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk And with my fingers feel his hand unfeeling: But all in vain are these mean obsequies; And to survey his dead and earthy image, What were it but to make my sorrow greater?

Mine own desert.
Boskos thromuldo boskos.
You're shallow, madam, in great friends; for the knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of. He that ears my land spares my team and gives me leave to in the crop; if I be his cuckold, he's my drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher of my flesh and blood; he that cherisheth my flesh and blood loves my flesh and blood is my friend:  ergo, blood; he that loves my flesh and blood is he that kisses my wife is my friend.  If men could be contented to be what they are, there were no fear in marriage; for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in religion, their heads are both one; they may joul horns together, like any deer i' the herd.
I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you, And that you fly them as you swear them  lordship, Yet you desire to marry. What woman's that? 
At Berkley castle.
Will I live? her, with her; hook on, hook on.
We all that are engaged to this loss Knew that we ventured on such dangerous seas That if we wrought out life 'twas ten to one; And yet we ventured, for the gain proposed Choked the respect of likely peril fear'd; And since we are o'erset, venture again. Come, we will all put forth, body and goods.
Under King Harry.
Sweet king! the bishop hath a kindly gird. For shame, my Lord of Winchester, relent! What, shall a child instruct you what to do?
Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king, That wish'd him on the barren mountains starve. But shall it be, that you, that set the crown Upon the head of this forgetful man And for his sake wear the detested blot Of murderous subornation, shall it be, That you a world of curses undergo, Being the agents, or base second means, The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather? O, pardon me that I descend so low, To show the line and the predicament Wherein you range under this subtle king; Shall it for shame be spoken in these days, Or fill up chronicles in time to come, That men of your nobility and power Did gage them both in an unjust behalf, As both of youGod, pardon it!have done, To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose, And plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke? And shall it in more shame be further spoken, That you are fool'd, discarded and shook off By him for whom these shames ye underwent? No; yet time serves wherein you may redeem Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves Into the good thoughts of the world again, Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt Of this proud king, who studies day and night To answer all the debt he owes to you Even with the bloody payment of your deaths: Therefore, I say,
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
Methinks his lordship should be humbler; It fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with the breach yourselves made, you lose your city. It is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to preserve virginity.  Loss of virginity is rational increase and there was never virgin got till virginity was first lost. That you were made of is metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it is ever lost: 'tis too cold a companion; away with 't!
'Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had that; and for their bareness, I am sure they never learned that of me.
Are not you Signior Benedick?
Call Buckingham, and bid him arm himself.
What's your pleasure, sir?
There is a history in all men's lives, Figuring the nature of the times deceased; The which observed, a man may prophesy, With a near aim, of the main chance of things As yet not come to life, which in their seeds And weak beginnings lie intreasured. Such things become the hatch and brood of time; And by the necessary form of this King Richard might create a perfect guess That great Northumberland, then false to him, Would of that seed grow to a greater falseness; Which should not find a ground to root upon, Unless on you.
Signior, no.
Sound a charge there.
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth To be the princely bride of such a lord; Upon condition I may quietly Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou, Free from oppression or the stroke of war, My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd, As if she had suborned some to swear False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
I learn, you take things ill which are not so, Or being, concern you not.

Marry, And I am glad of it with all my heart: I had rather be a kitten and cry mew Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers; I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd, Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree; And that would set my teeth nothing on edge, Nothing so much as mincing poetry: 'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
Madam, I will.
Here is the Talbot: who would speak with him?
Why does he ask him of me?
Divinest creature, Astra's daughter, How shall I honour thee for this success? Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next. France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess! Recover'd is the town of Orleans: More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
Must he be then as shadow of himself? Adorn his temples with a coronet, And yet, in substance and authority, Retain but privilege of a private man? This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
I know not: here he is, and here I yield him: and I beseech your grace, let it be booked with the rest of this day's deeds; or, by the Lord, I will have it in a particular ballad  else, with mine own picture on the top on't, Colevile kissing my foot: to the which course if I be enforced, if you do not all show like gilt twopences to me, and I in the clear sky of fame o'ershine you as much as the full moon doth the cinders of the element, which show like pins' heads to her, believe not the word of the noble: therefore let me have right, and let desert mount.
Nay, but his jesting spirit; which is now crept into a lute-string and now governed by stops.
Nay, then I'll run. What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.
To-morrow, soldier, By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live, Or bathe my dying honor in the blood Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well ?
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
I cannot choose: sometime he angers me With telling me of the moldwarp and the ant, Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies, And of a dragon and a finless fish, A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven, A couching lion and a ramping cat, And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff As puts me from my faith. I tell you what; He held me last night at least nine hours In reckoning up the several devils' names That were his lackeys: I cried 'hum,' and 'well, go to,' But mark'd him not a word.   O, he is as tedious As a tired horse, a railing wife; Worse than a smoky house: I had rather live With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far, Than feed on cates and have him talk to me In any summer-house in Christendom.
In bodily health, sir.
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' the table; no question asked him by any of the senators, but they stand bald before him: our general himself makes a mistress of him; sanctifies himself with's hand and turns up the whites o' the eye to his discourse. But the bottom of the news is, our general is cut i' the middle and but one half of what he was yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says, and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
My lord, this is a poor mad soul; and she says up and down the town that the eldest son is like you: she hath been in good case, and the truth is, poverty hath distracted her. But for these foolish officers, I beseech you I may have redress against them.
You said so much before, and yet you fled.
Hear you, sir ?
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony !
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind; The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
Mistress Tearsheet!
O piteous spectacle!   O bloody times! Whiles lions war and battle for their dens, Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity. Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear; And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war, Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
Serv. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that: for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
Where shall we take a purse tomorrow,  Jack?
Falstaff, an 't please your lordship.
What, hast the Philosophers stone? and thou hast, breake my head with it, I'le forgive thee.
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as, a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
Why, rude companion, whatsoe'er thou be, I know thee not; why, then, should I betray thee? Is't not enough to break into my garden, And, like a thief, to come to rob my grounds, Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner, But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd! How wert thou handled being prisoner? Or by what means got'st thou to be releas'd? Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
Mass, 'twill be sore law, then; for he was thrust in the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole yet.
There's a merry heart! Good Master Silence, I'll give you a health for that anon.
Descend to darkness and the burning lake! False fiend, avoid! Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUKE OF
BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in. 
Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there: Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome Which comes to punish us, and we punish it Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up: I have led you oft: carry me now, good friends, And have my thanks for all.
The power of Csar, and His power unto Octavia.
Dead.
Good morrow, carriers.   What's o'clock ?
The prince is here at hand: pleaseth your lordship To meet his grace just distance 'tween our armies.
My precious queen, forbear; And give true evidence to his love, which stands An honorable trial.
Comparisons are odorous: palabras, neighbor Verges.
Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
Environed he was with many foes, And stood against them, as the hope of Troy Against the Greeks that would have enter'd Troy. But Hercules himself must yield to odds; And many strokes, though with a little axe, Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak. By many hands your father was subdued; But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen, Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite, Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept, The ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks A napkin steeped in the harmless blood Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain: And after many scorns, many foul taunts, They took his head, and on the gates of York They set the same; and there it doth remain, The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from point, to the full arming of the verity.
At Berwick in the north, an't like your grace.
It well may serve A nursery to our gentry, who are sick For breathing and exploit.
I see them! I see them! There's Best's son, the tanner of Wingham,--
Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder, Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
O graceless men! they know not what they do.
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
Arise, you shall not kneel: I pray you, rise; rise, Egypt.
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace, And set thy diadem upon my head; Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?
Bring forth the body of old Salisbury, And here advance it in the market-place, The middle centre of this cursed town. Now have I paid my vow unto his soul; For every drop of blood was drawn from him There hath at least five Frenchmen died tonight. And that hereafter ages may behold What ruin happen'd in revenge of him, Within their chiefest temple I'll erect A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd: Upon the which, that every one may read, Shall be engraved the sack of Orleans, The treacherous manner of his mournful death And what a terror he had been to France. But, lords, in all our bloody massacre, I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace, His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc, Nor any of his false confederates.
Welcome, Sir John!   But why come you in arms?
I do.
Thanks, Reignier, happy for so sweet a child, Fit to be made companion with a king: What answer makes your grace unto my suit?
Why, that's well said.

For this I shall have time enough to mourn. In poison there is physic; and these news, Having been well, that would have made me sick, Being sick, have in some measure made me well: And as the wretch, whose fever-weaken'd joints, Like strengthless hinges, buckle under life, Impatient of his fit, breaks like a fire Out of his keeper's arms, even so my limbs, Weaken'd with grief, being now enraged with grief, Are thrice themselves. Hence, therefore, thou nice crutch! A scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel Must glove this hand: and hence, thou sickly quoif! Thou art a guard too wanton for the head Which princes, flesh'd with conquest, aim to hit. Now bind my brows with iron; and approach The ragged'st hour that time and spite dare bring To frown upon the enraged Northumberland! Let heaven kiss earth! now let not Nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let order die! And let this world no longer be a stage To feed contention in a lingering act; But let one spirit of the first-born Cain Reign in all bosoms, that, each heart being set On bloody courses, the rude scene may end, And darkness be the burier of the dead!
I spake with one, my lord, that came from thence, A gentleman well bred and of good name, That freely render'd me these news for true.
I am glad to see you well, good Master Robert Shallow: Master Surecard, as I think?
And we must do it wisely.
Tue  ,   tue, tue,
Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd slaves, And hunger will enforce them to be more eager: Of old I know them; rather with their teeth The walls they'll tear down than forsake the siege.
You're deceived, my lord:  this is Monsieur Parolles, the gallant militarist,-- that was his own phrase, --that had the whole theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in the chape of his dagger.
She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
Who, I? I have been merry twice and once ere now.
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang, I'll make a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no starveling. Tut! there   are   other Trojans that thou dreamest not of, the which for sport sake are content to do the profession some grace; that would, if matters should be looked into, for their own credit sake, make all whole. I am joined with no foot land-rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers, none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms; but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and great oneyers,  such as can hold in, such as will strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than drink, and drink sooner than pray: and yet, 'zounds, I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the commonwealth; or rather, not pray to her, but prey on her, for they ride up and down on her and make her their boots.
Talk not of dying: I am out of fear Of death or death's hand for this one-half year.
By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present hour, I will tell true.   Let me see: Spurio, a hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian, Cosmo, Lodowick, and Gratii, two hundred and fifty each; mine own company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred and fifty each; so that the muster-file, rotten and sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand poll; half of the which dare not shake the snow from off their cassocks, lest they shake themselves to pieces.
God save thy grace, King Hal! my royal Hal!
For what sum?
O Lord, sir! why, there't serves well again.
Had all your quarters been as safely kept As that whereof I had the government, We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very epicure.
Quoit him down, Bardolph, like a shove-groat shilling: nay, an a' do nothing but speak nothing, a' shall be nothing here.
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
To whom?
I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris, from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not say him nay.
He's walk'd the way of nature; And to our purposes he lives no more.
Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my teeth in your service. God be with my old master! he would not have spoke such a word.
So did you when you stole my gold.
I'll warrant you all your lands, An if what pleases him shall pleasure you. Fight closer, or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
If he be dead, brave Talbot, then adieu!
He was an honest man, and a good bricklayer.
No harm: what more?
A breach that craves a quick expedient stop! What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
Damsel of France, I think I have you fast: Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms And try if they can gain your liberty. A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace! See, how the ugly witch doth bend her brows, As if with Circe she would change my shape!
Froissart, a countryman of ours, records, England all Olivers and Rowlands bred During the time Edward the Third did reign. More truly now may this be verified; For none but Samsons and Goliases It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten! Lean raw-bon'd rascals! who would e'er suppose They had such courage and audacity?
Graceless! wilt thou deny thy parentage?
He shall have the skins of our enemies, to make dog's-leather of.
Welcome, brave earl, into our territories: Command in Anjou what your honour pleases.
And for the proffer of my lord your master, I have inform'd his highness so at large As liking of the lady's virtuous gifts, Her beauty and the value of her dower, He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it then.
Show me briefly how.
Francis!
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just seven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have all things answer my mind.
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many a hair; and I'll be sworn my pocket was picked. Go to, you are a woman, go.
I came hither to tell you; and, circumstances shortened, for she has been too long a talking of, the lady is disloyal.
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
A king's son. If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese, I'll never wear hair on my face more. You Prince of Wales!
Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The prince's fool! Ha? It may be I go under that title because I am merry. Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong; I am not so reputed: it is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice that puts the world into her person, and so gives me out. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.
In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there, or it is upon a file with the duke's other letters in my tent.
O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry, Pity the city of London, pity us! The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men, Forbidden late to carry any weapon, Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones And banding themselves in contrary parts Do pelt so fast at one another's pate That many have their giddy brains knock'd out: Our windows are broke down in every street And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
She never saw it.
Be of good cheer; You're fall'n into a princely hand, fear nothing : Make your full reference freely to my lord, Who is so full of grace, that it flows over On all that need: let me report to him Your sweet dependency; and you shall find A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness, Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
He hath arm'd our answer, And Florence is denied before he comes: Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see The Tuscan service, freely have they leave To stand on either part.
To whom, my lord?
Alack, sir, no; her passions are made of nothing but the finest part of pure love: we cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears; they are greater storms and tempests than almanacs can report: this cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she makes a shower of rain as well as Jove.
True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
Lead me, my lord? I do not need your help: And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive The Prince of Wales from such a field as this, Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on, And rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
An otter, Sir John! why an otter?
Stand here by me, Master Robert Shallow; I will make the king do you grace: I will leer upon him as a' comes by; and do but mark the countenance that he will give me.
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night, poor gallant knave.
While he was yet in Rome, His power went out in such distractions as Beguiled all spies.
Oh raskall! I change my selfe twice a day.
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee I speak no more than what my soul intends: And that is, to enjoy thee for my love.
And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall! And as my duty springs, so perish they That grudge one thought against your majesty!
Well, To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that I told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with him in gold: I heard him tell it to one of his company  last night at supper; a kind of auditor; one that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what. They are up already, and call for eggs and butter: they will away presently.
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
Thou that so stoutly hast resisted me, Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold; For I have bought it with an hundred blows. But let me see: is this our foeman's face? Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son! Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee, Throw up thine eye! see, see what showers arise, Blown with the windy tempest of my heart, Upon thy wounds, that kill mine eye and heart! O, pity, God, this miserable age! What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural, This deadly quarrel daily doth beget! O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon, And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower, Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
Well, the truth is, Sir John, you live in great infamy.
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome, Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch come forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's name, accuse these men.
No, let us beare him to the Magistrates.
Speak lower, princes, for the king recovers.
A plague upon that villain Somerset, That thus delays my promised supply Of horsemen, that were levied for this siege! Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid, And I am lowted by a traitor villain And cannot help the noble chevalier: God comfort him in this necessity! If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
I make all use of it, for I use it only. Who comes here? What news, Borachio? 
Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! kill and knock down! throw them into Thames. What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to sound retreat or parley, when I command them kill? Enter BUCKINGHAM and old CLIFFORD, attended. 
Peace!
At sea, I think.
But since all is well, keep it so: wake not a sleeping wolf.
Nought rests for me in this tumultuous strife But to make open proclamation: Come, officer; as loud as e'er thou canst Cry.
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths; Or one that, at a triumph having vow'd To try his strength, forsaketh yet the lists By reason of his adversary's odds: A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds, And therefore may be broke without offence.
Ye shall have a hempen caudle then and the help of hatchet.
What woman is this?
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
Come, let's hear, Jack; what trick hast thou now?
I am old, I am old.
Who's his lieutenant, hear you ?
True! I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded? God save your good worships!   Marcius is coming home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
We'll beat 'em into bench-holes: I have yet Room for six scotches more.
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is Even such a body: here I am Antony: Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave. I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen, Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine; Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't A million more, now lost,she, Eros, has Pack'd cards with Csar, and false-play'd my glory Unto an enemy's triumph. Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us Ourselves to end ourselves. O, thy vile lady! She has robb'd me of my sword.
'Tis not due yet; I would be loath to pay him before his day. What need I be so forward with him that calls not on me? Well, 'tis no matter; honour pricks me on. Yea, but how if honour prick me off when I come on? how then? Can honour set to a leg? no: or an arm? no: or take away the grief of a wound? no. Honour hath no skill in surgery, then? no. What is honour? a word. What is in that word honour? what is that honour? air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it? he that died o' Wednesday. Doth he feel it? no. Doth he hear it? no. 'Tis insensible, then? Yea, to the dead. But will it not live with the living? no.   Why? detraction   will not suffer it. Therefore I'll none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon: and so ends my catechism.
And, Nevil, this I do assure myself: Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick The greatest man in England but the king.
Dost thou hear, hostess?
His letters bear his mind, not I, my lord.
Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can Her heart inform her tongue,-the swan's down-feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide, And neither way inclines.
A' calls me e'en now, my lord, through a red lattice, and I could discern no part of his face from the window; at last I spied his eyes, and methought he had made two holes in the ale-wife's new petticoat and so peeped through.
The king hath many marching in his coats.
I will forsooth, Mistris.
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general, Caius Marcius.
Down fell their hose.
I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as lieve be a condemned man.
I crave your highness' pardon. n=98
I would you had but the wit: 'twere better than your dukedom.   Good faith, this same young sober-blooded boy doth not love me; nor a man cannot make him laugh; but that's no marvel, he drinks no wine. There's never none of these demure boys come to any proof; for thin drink doth so over-cool their blood, and making many fish-meals, that they fall into a kind of male green-sickness; and then, when they marry, they get wenches: they are generally fools and cowards; which some of us should be too, but for inflammation. A good sherris sack hath a two-fold operation in it. It ascends me into the brain; dries me there all the foolish and dull and curdy vapors which environ it; makes it apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble fiery and delectable  shapes; which, delivered o'er to the voice, the tongue, which is the birth, becomes excellent wit. The second property of your excellent  sherris is, the warming of the blood; which, before cold and settled, left the liver white and pale, which is the badge of pusillanimity  and cowardice; but the sherris warms it and makes it course from the inwards to the parts extreme: it illumineth the face, which as a beacon gives warning to all the rest of this little kingdom, man, to arm; and then the vital commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to their captain, the heart, who, great and puffed up with this retinue,  doth any deed of courage; and this valor comes of sherris. So that skill in the weapon is nothing without sack, for that sets it a-work; and learning a mere hoard of Fold kept by a devil, till sack commences it and sets it in act and use. Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is valiant; for the cold blood he did naturally inherit of his father, he hath, like lean, sterile and bare land, manured, husbanded and tilled with excellent endeavor of drinking good and good store of fertile sherris, that he is become very hot and valiant.   If I had a thousand sons, the first humane principle I would teach them should be, to forswear thin potations and to addict themselves to sack. How now, Bardolph?
Bless you, my fortunate lady!
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
No, no, no; not so; I did not think thou wast within hearing.
How now, my lords! what, all unready so?
I am a rogue, if I were not at half- sword with a dozen of them two hours together . I have 'scaped by miracle. I am eight times thrust through the doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut through and through; my sword hacked like a hand-saw ecce signum ! I never dealt better since I was a man: all would not do. A plague of all cowards! Let them speak: if they speak more or less than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us to-morrow: I have a jest to execute  that I cannot manage alone. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid; yourself and I will not be there; and when they have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut this head off from my shoulders.
It doth so.
What a blessing has he  given't  give'nt  ? was ever pot of rice porredge so sauc't? what shall I doe with it?
It is to be recovered: but that the merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact performer, I would have that drum or another, or 'hic jacet.'
In all submission and humility York doth present himself unto your highness.
Let vultures vile seize on his lungs also ! 'Where is the life that late I led?' say they: 'Why, here it is; welcome these pleasant days!
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun; Not separated with the racking clouds, But serv'd in a pale clear-shining sky. See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss, As if they vow'd some league inviolable: Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun, In this the heaven figures some event.
O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus, I never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
I thank you, good people: there shall be no money; all shall eat and drink on my score; and I will apparel them all in one livery, that they may agree like brothers and worship me their lord.
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party that should desire you to touch him, for his biting is immortal; those that do die of it do seldom or never recover.
Alas, you know, 'tis far from hence to France; How could he stay till Warwick made return?
In private?
Thomas Wart!
That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she brought me up, I likewise give her most humble thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick, all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do them the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the right to trust none; and the fine is, for the which I may go the finer, I will live a bachelor.
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
Ay, to devour him; as the hungry plebeians would the noble Marcius.
Did you beg any? God forbid!
A fall off of a tree.
And Dick the Butcher,--
Neglected, rather; And then when poison'd hours had bound me up >From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may, I'll play the penitent to you: but mine honesty Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia, To have me out of Egypt, made wars here; For which myself, the ignorant motive, do So far ask pardon as befits mine honor To stoop in such a case.
Why ?
Oh good words, Sir, and send it you, weere best se; there's his letter.
An idle lord, I swear.
You are loved, sir: They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved the people.
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
It is reported, mighty sovereign, That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murder'd By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means. The commons, like an angry hive of bees That want their leader, scatter up and down And care not who they sting in his revenge. Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny, Until they hear the order of his death.
The prince hath ta'en it hence: go, seek him out. Is he so hasty that he doth suppose My sleep my death? Find him, my Lord of Warwick; chide him hither. This part of his conjoins with my disease, And helps to end me. See, sons, what things you are! How quickly nature falls into revolt When gold becomes her object! For this the foolish over-careful fathers Have broke their sleep with thoughts, their brains with care, Their bones with industry; For this they have engross'd and piled up The canker'd heaps of strange-achieved gold; For this they have been thoughtful to invest Their sons with arts and material exercises: When, like the bee, culling from every flower The virtuous sweets, Our thighs pack'd with wax, our mouths with honey, We bring it to the hive, and, like the bees, Are murdered for our pains. This bitter taste Yield his engrossments to the ending father. Re-enter WARWICK.  Now, where is he that will not stay so long Till his friend sickness hath determined me?
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury Set all upon me, mighty sovereign. 
See, how the pangs of death do make him grin!
Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping of wise people; for, indeed, there is no goodness in the worm.
How is this justified?
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
Her words do show her wit incomparable; All her perfections challenge sovereignty: One way or other, she is for a king; And she shall be my love, or else my queen.-- Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is not worth the feeding.
Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch; and where it would not, I have used my credit.
The river hath thrice flow'd, no ebb between; And the old folk, time's doting chronicles, Say it did so a little time before That our great-grandsire, Edward, sick'd and died.
He cannot want the best That shall attend his love.
My staff? here, noble Henry, is my staff: As willingly do I the same resign As e'er thy father Henry made it mine; And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it As others would ambitiously receive it. Farewell, good king: when I am dead and gone, May honourable peace attend thy throne!
O, he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was.
Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you think your mystery in stratagem  can bring this instrument of honour again into his native quarter, be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it, and extend to you what further becomes his greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your worthiness.
I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.
I, Ddalus; my poor boy, Icarus; Thy father, Minos, that denied our course; The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life. Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words! My breast can better brook thy dagger's point Than can my ears that tragic history. But wherefore dost thou come? is't for my life?
You are undone, captain, all but your scarf; that has a knot on't yet.
We have sent forth already.
Come, come, it may not be. I wonder much, Being men of such great leading as you are, That you foresee not what impediments Drag back our expedition: certain horse Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up: Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today; And now their pride and mettle is asleep, Their courage with hard labour tame and dull, That not a horse is half the half of himself.
I will lay odds that, ere this yeai expire, We bear our civil swords and native fire As far as France: I heard a bird so sing, Whose music, to my thinking, pleased the king. Come, will you hence? 
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age cannot bring thee.
Why, there then: thus I do escape the sorrow Of Antony's death.
My lord?
Soone enough to your cost, Sir:
From the court! let him come in. How now, Pistol!
From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right, And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head: Ring, bells, aloud; burn, bonfires, clear and bright, To entertain great England's lawful king. Ah! sancta majestas, who would not buy thee dear? Let them obey that know not how to rule; This hand was made to handle nought but gold. I cannot give due action to my words, Except a sword or sceptre balance it: A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul, On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France. Whom have we here?   Buckingham, to disturb me? The king hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
Tell him   from   me that he hath done me wrong, And therefore I'll crown him ere't be long. There's thy reward: be gone.
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her: they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit between them.
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's; For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help, And we shall have more wars before't be long. As Henry's late presaging prophecy Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond, So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts What may befall him, to his harm and ours: Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst, Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany, Till storms be past of civil enmity.
Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood, Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength, Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night. I need not add more fuel to your fire, For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out: Give signal to the first, and to it, lords!
Farewell Fidler: One  letter more  more letter  to the Jew.
A most royal one; the centurions and their charges, distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment, and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit. 
Come, then, let's go fight with them: but first, go and set London bridge on fire; and, if you can, burn down the Tower too. Come, let's away.
Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do come in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in his willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like not such grinning honour as Sir Walter hath: give me life: which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes unlooked for, and there's an end.
Barren, barren, barren; beggars all, beggars all, Sir John: marry, good air. Spread,Davy; spread, Davy: well said, Davy.
Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
I must make this villaine away: please 
you dine with me, Sir, and you shal be most hartily 
poyson'd.
A maid! and be so martial!
By the mass, I was called any thing; and I would have done any thing indeed too, and roundly too. There was I, and little John Doit of Staffordshire, and black George Barnes, and Francis Pickbone, and Will Squele, a Cotswold man; you had not four such swinge-bucklers in all the inns o' court again: and I may say to you, we knew where the bona-robas were and had the best of them all at commandment. Then was Jack Falstaff, now Sir John, a boy, and page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk.
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown, 'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
Let us go. Come; Our separation so abides, and flies, That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me, And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
When ever yet was your appeal denied? Wherein have you been galled by the king? What peer hath been suborn'd to grate on you, That you should seal this lawless bloody book Of forged rebellion with a seal divine And consecrate commotion's bitter edge?
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
Do me right, And dub me knight: Samingo. Is't not so?
Bid her have good heart: She soon shall know of us, by some of ours, How honorable and how kindly we Determine for her; for Csar cannot live To be ungentle.
And, in this resolution, I defy thee: Not willing any longer conference, Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak. Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave! And either victory, or else a grave.
It cannot be, my lord; Rumour doth double, like the voice and echo, The numbers of the fear'd. Please it your grace To go to bed. Upon my soul, my lord, The powers that you already have sent forth Shall bring this prize in very easily. To comfort you the more, I have received A certain instance that Glendower is dead. Your majesty hath been this fortnight ill, And these unseason'd hours perforce must add Unto your sickness.
As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye; what cunning match have you made with this jest of the drawer? come, what's the issue?
No matter; his heels have deserved it, in usurping his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
O' horseback, ye cuckoo; but afoot he will not budge a foot.
Let's ha't, good soldier.
Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming, And shut the gates for safety of ourselves; For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his company to-night?
Stay, my lord Talbot; for my lady craves To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
This haste hath wings indeed.
First, madam, he is well.
What say you to his expertness in war?
That's to make him eat twenty of his words. But do you use me thus, Ned? must I marry your sister?
True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
I will take your counsel: And were these inward wars once out of hand, We would, dear lords, unto the Holy Land.
Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.
Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats; I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece, Until I meet the king.
O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
Farewell, sweet madam: but hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king?
Not a whit, i' faith; I lack some of thy instinct.
You have misled the youthful prince.
Whence are you, sir?   Has the porter his eyes in his head, that he gives entrance to such companions? Pray, get you out.
A poor Egyptian yet. The queen my mistress, Confined in all she has, her monument, Of thy intents desires instruction, That she preparedly may frame herself To the way she's forced to.
Yes, my good lord; But never hope to know why I should marry her.
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife? What is your quarrel? how began it first?
Well, sir.
Shadow will serve for summer; prick him, for we have a number of shadows to fill up the muster-book.
I must leave you.
Farewell, farewell!
But you have done more miracles than I; You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
Titled goddess; And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul, In your fine frame hath love no quality? If the quick fire of youth light not your mind, You are no maiden, but a monument: As you are now, for you are cold and stern; When you are dead, you should be such a one And now you should be as your mother was When your sweet self was got.
There is no need of any such redress; Or if there were, it not belongs to you.
The world and my great office will sometimes Divide me from your bosom.
Sir, for a quart d'ecu he will sell the fee-simple of his salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut the entail from all remainders, and a perpetual succession for it perpetually.
'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad; I'll make one; an I do not, call me villain and baffle me.
Do not think so; you shall not find it so: And God forgive them   that so much have sway'd Your majesty's good thoughts away from me! I will redeem all this on Percy's head And in the closing of some glorious day Be bold to tell you that I am your son; When I will wear a garment all of blood And stain my favours in a bloody mask, Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it: And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights, That this same child of honour and renown, This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight, And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet. For every honour sitting on his helm, Would they were multitudes, and on my head My shames redoubled! for the time will come, That I shall make this northern youth exchange His glorious deeds for my indignities. Percy is but my factor, good my lord, To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf; And I will call him to so strict account, That he shall render every glory up, Yea, even the slightest worship of his time, Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart. This, in the name of God, I promise here: The which if He be pleased I shall perform, I do beseech your majesty may salve The long-grown wounds of my intemperance: If not, the end of life cancels all bands; And I will die a hundred thousand deaths Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
Why will my lord do so ?
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
Briefly, sir.
Who lent it you?
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
Let it be cast and paid. Sir John, you shall not be excused.
To conclude, he gave me ten crownes.
Ay, by my faith, for a poor earl to give: I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath, And sinks most lamentably. Had our general Been what he knew himself, it had gone well: O, he has given example for our flight, Most grossly, by his own!
Suffolk's imperial tongue is stern and rough, Used to command, untaught to plead for favour. Far be it we should honour such as these With humble suit: no, rather let my head Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any Save to the God of heaven and to my king; And sooner dance upon a bloody pole Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom. True nobility is exempt from fear: More can I bear than you dare execute.
By the mass, you 'll crack a quart to  gether, ha! will you not, Master Bardolph?
He apprehends a world of figures here, But not the form of what he should attend. Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
Sound, sound alarum! we will rush on them. Now for the honour of the forlorn French! Him I forgive my death that killeth me When he sees me go back one foot or fly. Here alarum; they are beaten back by the English with great loss.  Re-enter CHARLES,
ALENCON, and REIGNIER. 
How now, lady
Thus have you heard our cause and known our means; And, my most noble friends, I pray you all, Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes: And first, lord marshal, what say you to it?
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee: Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass, But still remember what the Lord hath done.
Let's see what they be: read them.
What's the matter! there be four of us here have ta'en a thousand pound this day morning.
Be brave, then; for your captain is brave, and vows reformation. There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves sold for a penny: the three-hooped pot shall have ten hoops; and I will make it a felony to drink small beer: all the realm shall be in common; and in Cheapside shall my palfry go to grass: and when I am king, as king I will be,--
By this hand, thou thinkest me as far in the devil's book as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency: let the end try the man. But I tell thee, my heart bleeds inwardly that my father is so sick: and keeping such vile company as thou art hath in reason taken from me all ostentation of sorrow.
We serve you, madam, In that and all your worthiest affairs.
His effect of gravy, gravy, gravy.
Patience is for poltroons, such as he: He durst not sit there, had your father lived. My gracious lord, here in the parliament Let us assail the family of York.
Do you set down your name in the scroll of youth, that are written down old with all the characters of age?  Have you not a moist eye? a dry hand? a yellow cheek? a white beard? a decreasing leg? an increasing belly? is not your voice broken? your wind short? your chin double? your wit single? and every part about you blasted with antiquity? and will you yet call yourself young? Fie, fie, fie, Sir John!
Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero?
My Lord of Suffolk, within fourteen days At Bristol I expect my soldiers; For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
Well, here I am set.
Mass, thou lovedst plums well, that wouldst venture so.
O, Sir John, do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in Saint George's field?
We charge you, in the prince's name, stand!
Ha, cousin Silence, that thou hadst seen that that this knight and I have seen! Ha, Sir John, said I well?
Under Mars, I.
Well, I would you did like me.
Well, then, Colevile is your name, a knight is your degree, and your place the dale: Colevile shall be still your name, a traitor your degree, and the dungeon your place, a place deep enough; so shall you be still Colevile of the dale.
I will not excuse you; you shall not be excused: excuses shall not be admitted; there is no excuse shall serve; you shall not be excused. Why, Davy!
All's one for that. A plague of all cowards, still say I.
She never could away with me.
My Lord of Warwick!
How then? sick?
Not to dispraise me, and call me pantler and bread-chipper and I know not what?
Seven groats and two pence.
Well, God mend him!   I pray you, let me speak with you.
Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
A   match, sir.   There's in all two worthy voices begged.   I have your alms: adieu.
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that belongs to 't.   Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall do you no harm to learn.
I thank thee with all my heart, kind Master Bardolph: and welcome, my tall fellow Come, Sir John.
Valiant I am.
What wouldst thou think of me, if I should weep?
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
For what, lieutenant? for well using me? Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness, For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure; Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds Conceive when after many moody thoughts At last by notes of household harmony They quite forget their loss of liberty. But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free, And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee; He was the author, thou the instrument. Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me, And that the people of this blessed land May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars, Warwick, although my head still wear the crown, I here resign my government to thee, For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
Sweet madam, give me hearing in a cause--
Is your assembly so?
Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough Cleopatra's health to drink.
York lies; he might have sent and had the horse; I owe him little duty, and less love; And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
Strike not by land; keep whole: provoke not battle, Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed The prescript of this scroll: our fortune lies Upon this jump.
No malice, sir; no more than well becomes So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
Comfort, your majesty!
Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.
Csar, I go.
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
Speake, shall I have 'um, Sir?
I pluck this red rose with young Somerset And say withal I think he held the right.
'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away within these two hours; and so come in when ye will.
Will your lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me forth?
Peace be with us, lest we be heavier!
My nightingale, We have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man; Commend unto his lips thy favoring hand: Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day As if a god, in hate of mankind, had Destroy'd in such a shape.
By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I heard!   Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out the burly-boned clown in chines of beef ere thou sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou mayst be turned to hobnails. 
She hath that ring of yours.
Not so much noise, my lords: sweet prince, speak low; The king your father is disposed to sleep.
God save King Henry, of that name the sixth!
Good Enobarbus!
Content.
Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon, Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art: I do arrest thee of high treason here.
I talk not of his majesty: you would not come when I sent for you.
Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come! O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet: Take all his company along with him.
Can he be there in person ? 'tis impossible ; Strange that his power should be. Canidius, Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land, And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship: Away, my Thetis! How now, worthy soldier!
Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hanged.
Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.
If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him.
Know you any, count?
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
A good old man, sir; he will be talking: as they say, When the age is in, the wit is out: God help us! it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith, neighbor Verges: well, God's a good man; an two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest soul, i' faith, sir; by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but God is to be worshipped; all men are not alike; alas, good neighbor!
Uncle, adieu: O, let the hours be short Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
And I to Norfolk with my followers.
No, my chuck. Eros, come; mine armor, Eros! Come, good fellow, put mine iron on: If fortune be not ours to-day, it is Because we brave her: come.
'Tis a brave army, And full of purpose.
No, no, he cannot long hold out these pangs: The incessant care and labor of his mind Hath wrought the mure that should confine it in So thin that life looks through and will break out.
Here stand, my lords; and send discoverers forth To know the numbers of our enemies.
And to thee.

But 'twas ere I was born. Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me, Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just, He be as miserably slain as I. Ah, let me live in prison all my days; And when I give occasion of offence, Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant; And for this once my will shall stand for law.
Enobarbus!
That is her ransom; I deliver her; And those two counties I will undertake Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
Very well.
Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Away! for vengeance comes along with them: Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed; Or else come after: I'll away before.
Will you thus break your faith?
Hath been! is it ended, then?   Our state thinks not so: they are in a most war-like preparation, and hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
What would you with me, honest neighbor?
A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
Richard and Hastings: let them go; here is The duke.
They use to write it on the top of letters: 'twill go hard with you.
Nay, I have done. Here comes the emperor.
Davy, Davy, Davy, Davy, let me see, Davy; let me see, Davy; let me see: yea, marry, William cook, bid him come hither. Sir John, you shall not be excused.
O, we are undone, both we and ours forever!
This very day, Great Mars, I put myself into thy file: Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
Now will it best avail your majesty To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France: The presence of a king engenders love Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends, As it disanimates his enemies.
Do so: farewell. Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
What's pity?
Shall I? content: this chair shall be my state, this dagger my sceptre, and this cushion my crown.
I'll fee thee to stand up.
I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
Lords, give us leave; the Prince of Wales and I Must have some private conference: but be near at hand, For we shall presently have need of you. I know not whether God will have it so, For some displeasing service I have done, That, in his secret doom, out of my blood He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me; But thou dost in thy passages of life Make me believe that thou art only mark'd For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else, Could such inordinate and low desires, Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts, Such barren pleasures, rude society, As thou art match'd withal and grafted to, Accompany the greatness of thy blood And hold their level with thy princely heart?
Nay rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still. Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will! Enter young CLIFFORD. 
Sir?
Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourged with rods, Nettled and stung with pismires, when I hear Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke. In Richard's time,what do you call the place? A plague upon it, it is in Gloucestershire; 'Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept, His uncle York; where I first bow'd my knee Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke, 'Sblood! When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh.
Away, away, to meet the queen's great power! Exeunt. 
If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray the Florentine?
Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
We have been called so of many; not that our heads are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald, but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south, and their consent of one direct way should be at once to all the points o' the compass.
Why then, lament therefore.
We shall, noble captain.
Nor I.
Sir, here comes the nobleman that committed the prince for striking him about Bardolph.
Foh, me thinkes they stinke like a Holly-Hoke.
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of your father.
Fulvia!
At your noble pleasure. 
Belike then my appetite was not princely got; for, by my troth, I do now remember the poor creature, small beer. But, indeed, these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness. What a disgrace is it to me to remember thy name!   or to know thy face to-morrow! or to take note how many pair of silk stockings thou hast, viz. these, and those that were thy peach-colored ones! or to bear the inventory of thy shirts, as, one for superfluity, and another for use! But that the tennis-court-keeper knows better than I; for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there; as thou hast not done a great while, because the rest of thy low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland: and God knows, whether those that bawl out the ruins of thy linen shall inherit his kingdom: but the midwives say the children are not in the fault; whereupon the world increases, and kindreds are mightily strengthened.
Uncle, how now!
There, Diomed there.
My wife, my liege!   I shall beseech your highness, In such a business give me leave to use The help of mine own eyes.
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead, excessive grief the enemy to the living.
Content, my liege! yes, but that I am prevented, I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs, And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
Tush, my good lord, this superficial tale Is but a preface of her worthy praise; The chief perfections of that lovely dame, Had I sufficient skill to utter them, Would make a volume of enticing lines, Able to ravish any dull conceit: And, which is more, she is not so divine, So full-replete with choice of all delights, But with as humble lowliness of mind She is content to be at your command; Command, I mean, of virtuous chaste intents, To love and honour Henry as her lord.
Good morrow, sweet Hal. What Says Monsieur Remorse? what says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack! how agrees the devil and thee about thy soul, that thou soldest him on Good-Friday last for a cup of Madeira and a cold capon's leg?
Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen; And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
How now! what news? why comest thou in such haste?
This, Douglas? no: I know this face full well: A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt; Semblaby furnish'd like the king himself.
I 'll follow you, good Master Robert Shallow. Barlolph, look to our horses. [Exeunt Bardolph and Page.] If I were sawed into quantities, I should make four dozen of such bearded hermits' staves as Master Shallow.   It is a wonderful thing to see the semblable coherence of his men's spirits and his: they, by observing of him, do bear themselves like foolish justices; he, by conversing  with them, is turned into a justice-like  serving-man: their spirits are so married in conjunction with the participation of society that they 'flock together in consent, like so many wild-geese. If I had a suit to Master Shallow, I would humor his men with the imputation of being near their master: if to his men, I would curry with Master Shallow that no man could better command his servants. It is certain that either wise bearing or ignorant carriage is caught, as men take diseases,  one of another: therefore let men take heed of their company. I will devise matter enough out of this Shallow to keep Prince Harry in continual laughter the wearing out of six fashions, which is four terms, or two actions, and a' shall laugh without intervallums.  O, it is much that a lie with a slight oath and a jest with a sad brow will do with a fellow that never had the ache in his shoulders!   O, you shall see him laugh till his face be like a wet cloak ill laid up!
What's he?
Let him alone, for I remember now How he's employ'd: he shall in time be ready. Go with me to my tent; where you shall see How hardly I was drawn into this war; How calm and gentle I proceeded still In all my writings: go with me, and see What I can show in this.
We do remember; but our argument Is all too heavy to admit much talk.
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers; That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
Write for  five hundred  500  Crownes.
Sir, good success !
I did Sir, and from this Gentlewoman, who as my selfe, and the rest of the family, stand or fall at your service.
Here's more news.
There is my hand. A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother Did ever love so dearly: let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never Fly off our loves again!
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of cuckolds.
What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the truth the truth?
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
Mine honesty and I begin to square. The loyalty well held to fools does make Our faith mere folly: yet he that can endure To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord Does conquer him that did his master conquer And earns a place i' the story.
By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap. To pluck bright honor from the pale-faced moon, Or dive into the bottom of the deep, Where fathom-line could never touch the ground, And pluck up drowned honour by the locks; So he that doth redeem her thence might wear Without corrival all her dignities: But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's. Therefore at last I firmly am resolved You shall have aid.
I would think thee a most princely hypocrite.
Now heaven forfend the holy maid with child!
Dispatch: this knave's tongue begins to double. Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
I think so,  and  but  yet I cannot tell, for at the reading of the letter, he look'd like a man of another world.
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard ? I have a health for you.
She does abuse our ears: to prison with her.
That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
We took him setting of boys' copies.
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you taught to find me? The search, sir, was profitable; and much fool may you find in you, even to the world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.
Eleanor, the law, thou see'st, hath judged thee: I cannot justify whom the law condemns. Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief. Ah, Humphrey, this dishonour in thine age Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground I beseech your majesty, give me leave to go; Sorrow would solace and mine age would ease.
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
Fill till the cup be hid.
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
It were superfluous; for his apparel is built upon his back and the whole frame stands upon pins: prick him no more.
Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
Ay, Lepidus.
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd, Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
Let all the number of the stars give light To thy fair way!
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
Dost thou speak like a king?   Do thou stand for me, and I'll play my father.
Then with the losers let it sympathise, For nothing can seem foul to those that win. Enter WORCESTER and VERNON.  How now, my Lord of Worcester! 'tis not well That you and I should meet upon such terms As now we meet. You have deceived our trust, And made us doff our easy robes of peace, To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel: This is not well, my lord, this is not well. What say you to it? will you again unknit This churlish knot of all-abhorred war? And move in that obedient orb again Where you did give a fair and natural light, And be no more an exhaled meteor, A prodigy of fear and a portent Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
Pardona moy, Mounsier,  me  we  be no well.
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him; a' wears a lock.
I know it, Sir.
Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy doom! Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight: Henceforth we banish thee, on pain of death. And now, my lord protector, view the letter Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
My Lord ?
Let them play. Play, sirs. Sit on my knee, Doll. A rascal bragging slave! the rogue fled from me like quicksilver.
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat, thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
These promises are fair, the parties sure, And our induction full of prosperous hope.
Be pleased to tell us For this is from the presenthow you take The offers we have sent you.
Marry, then, Mouldy, Bullcalf, Feeble and Shadow.
It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much: Henry is youthful and will quickly yield. Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
Worthy voices!
First, of my word; therefore play, music. Prince, thou art sad; get thee a wife, get thee a wife: there is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn.
Csar, I shall.
Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived, If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour, If seriously I may convey my thoughts In this my light deliverance, I have spoke With one that, in her sex, her years, profession, Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more That I dare blame my weakness: will you see her, For that is her demand, and know her business? That done, laugh well at me.
And time is at his period.
Well, masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here upon the church-bench till two, and then all to bed.
This is an aspic's trail: and these fig-leaves Have slime upon them, such as the aspic leaves Upon the caves of Nile.
This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's brother, was a villain.
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France Would in so just a business shut his bosom Against our borrowing prayers.
I would not see't.
You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't; save your word.
Peace! Hark further.
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge, Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
O Antony ! O thou Arabian bird !
And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
When Gloucester says the word. King Henry goes; For friendly counsel cuts off many foes.
Another king! they   grow like Hydra's heads: I am the Douglas, fatal to all those That wear those colours on them: what art thou, That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she will not discover it.
As who, my lord?
And, good master corporal captain, for my old dame's sake, stand my friend: she has nobody to do any thing about her when I am gone; and she is old, and cannot help her -self: you shall have forty, sir.
I cannot blame him: was not he proclaim'd By Richard that dead is the next of blood?
'John Falstaff, knight,'- every man must know that, as oft as he has occasion to name himself: even like those that are kin to the king; for they never prick their finger but they say, 'There's some of the king's blood spilt.' How comes that?' says he, that takes upon him not to conceive. The answer is as ready as a borrower's cap, 'I am the king's poor cousin, sir.'
Let them be in the hands
What will your grace have done with Margaret? Reignier, her father, to the king of France Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem, And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
Fill the cup, and let it come; I'll pledge you a mile to the bottom.
It might; but it is not now.
Why, so can I, or so can any man; But will they come when you do call for them?
She is not well; but yet she has her health: she's very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be given, she's very well and wants nothing i' the world; but she is not well.
Good morrow, cousin Warwick, good morrow.
'Tis call'd Jerusalem, my noble lord.
Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
Why should he, then, protect our sovereign, He being of age to govern of himself? Cousin of Somerset, join you with me, And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk, We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
And when please you to say so?
A peace is of the nature of a conquest; For then both parties nobly are subdued, And neither party loser.
If Richard will be true, not that alone But all the whole inheritance I give That doth belong unto the house of York, From whence you spring by lineal descent.
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks he?
You have been a boggler ever: But when we in our viciousness grow hard O misery on't !the wise gods seel our eyes; In our own filth drop our clear judgments; make us Adore our errors; laugh at's, while we strut To our confusion.
But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy, And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
But now of late, not able to travel with her furred pack, she washes bucks here at home.
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in tears!   The great dignity that his valour hath here acquired for him shall at home be encountered with a shame as ample.
And here I will expect thy coming.
Anon, anon, sir.
Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee: Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king Unto the commons whom thou hast misled; And here pronounce free pardon to them all That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
Marry, sir, thus; those precepts cannot  be served: and, again, sir, shall we sow the headland with wheat?
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray You use her well: the world may laugh again; And I may live to do you kindness if You do it her: and so, Sir John, farewell!
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them? Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me; My brother Montague shall post to London: Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest, Whom we have left protectors of the king, With powerful policy strengthen themselves, And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth; Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
A gentleman.
And by other warranted testimony.
Yea, by mass, that it is.
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius, Publicola, and Clius, are for sea: But we keep whole by land. This speed of Csar's Carries beyond belief.
She and the Dauphin have been juggling: I did imagine what would be her refuge.
Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
What else, fellow?
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
By this light, he changes more and more: I think he be angry indeed.
When I did make thee free, sworest thou not then To do this when I bade thee ? Do it at once; Or thy precedent services are all But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
Master Hume, we are therefore provided: will her ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was broke cross.
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you, That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
Thus do the hopes we have in him touch ground And dash themselves to pieces.
I did; I saw him dead, Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art thou alive? Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight? I prithee speak; we will not trust our eyes Without our ears: thou art not what thou seem'st.
An I but fist him once; an a' come but within my vice,--
How if they will not?
No, gentle madam; I unworthy am To woo so fair a dame to be his wife And have no portion in the choice myself. How say you, madam, are ye so content?
Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner;' there's a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me;' that's as much as to say, Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not love her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture.
Be patient, York: if we conclude a peace, It shall be with such strict and severe covenants As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward, As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland; But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed,
Welcome to Rome.
Why, master, wil you poison her with a messe of rice var:#porredge?] ~ ^ Q; ~, <I>or</I> ~ ^ Dd2, Dd3, R, D, C#  BAD variant versions have comma or they don't!  porredge  ?   that wil preserve life, make her round and plump, and batten more then you are aware.
Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague, And all at once, once more a happy farewell.
I shall drive you then to confess the wilful abuse; and then I know how to handle you.
Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
Take no offence that I would not offend you: To punish me for what you make me do. Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
I'll halt after.
Open the gates unto the lord protector, Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
Agreede.
Well said, Master Silence.
Well, peace be with him that hath made us heavy!
Why, my good lord, you need not fear; There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
England ne'er had a king until his time. Virtue he had, deserving to command: His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams: His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings; His sparkling eyes, replete with wrathful fire, More dazzled and drove back his enemies Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces. What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech: He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
What, I pray you ?
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid the house.
Then is Csar and he for ever knit together.
This was but as a fly by an eagle: we had much more monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
He says so.
O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most monstrous watch is at the door.
My gracious lord, retire to Killingworth, Until a power be raised to put them down.
Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest, The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff, This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet, As on a mountain top the cedar shows That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm, Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
As it were, to ride day and night; and not to deliberate, not to remember, not to have patience to shift me,--
Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who hath any honesty in him.
Sometimes we see a cloud that's dragonish; A vapor sometime like a bear or lion, A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock, A forked mountain, or blue promontory With trees upon't, that nod unto the world, And mock our eyes with air: thou hast seen these signs; They are black vesper's pageants.
I know thee now: how farest thou, soldier ?
A murrain on't! I took this for silver. Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet. 
Therefore I came unto your majesty.
For one of them, she is in hell already, and burns poor souls. For the other, I owe her money; and whether she be damned for that, I know not.
Now, Travers, what good tidings comes with you?
I'll fight at sea.
Not to be helped,--
You rogue, they were bound, every man of them; or I am a Jew else, an Ebrew Jew.
O Antony, You have my father's house,-- But, what ? we are friends. Come, down into the boat.
You must think this, look you, that the worm will do his kind.
Is not his brother, Thomas of Clarence, with him?
Sweet knight, I kiss thy neif: what! we have seen the seven stars.
This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper: my daughter tells us all.
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
I wonder how the king escaped our hands.
It shall be suffigance.
So would you be again to Henry, If he were seated as King Edward is.
My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
To let a fellow that will take rewards And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with My playfellow, your hand; this kingly seal And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar The horned herd! for I have savage cause; And to proclaim it civilly, were like A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank For being yare about him. Is he whipp'd ? 
To the Welsh lady's bed.
Now, divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it not strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when all's done. The Song.  Balth.   Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever, One foot in sea and one on shore, To one thing constant never: Then sigh not so, but let them go, And be you blithe and bonny, Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey nonny, nonny. Sing no more ditties, sing no moe, Of dumps so dull and heavy; The fraud of men was ever so, Since summer first was leavy: Then sigh not so, &c.  
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee well: thy casement I need not open, for I look through thee. Give me thy hand.
If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear me, Rise from thy stool.
Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
For aught I see, this city must be famish'd, Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
If 'twere above ground I could, and would have it; but tree hides and buries it up as Partridges doe their egges, under the earth.
Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous; And now may seem as wise as virtuous, By spying and avoiding fortune's malice, For few men rightly temper with the stars: Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace, For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
I do not know if it be it or no.
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Marcius.
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do; To free King Henry from imprisonment And see him seated in the regal throne.
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may easily put it off at court: he that cannot make a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all men.
Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast, But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten, The king was slily finger'd from the deck! You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace, And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
And I accept the combat willingly.
Away, Bardolph! saddle my horse. Master Robert Shallow, choose what office thou wilt in the land, 'tis thine. Pistol, I will double-charge thee with dignities.
Ay, when? canst tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth he? marry, I'll see thee hanged first.
Good night, sir. My Octavia, Read not my blemishes in the world's report: I have not kept my square; but that to come Shall all be done by the rule. Good night, dear lady. Good night, sir.
'Faith, tell me now   in earnest, how came Falstaff's sword so hacked?
With me in your company?
Marry, presently.
Why, so! then am I sure of victory. Now therefore let us hence; and lose no hour, Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well; The common people by numbers swarm to us. But see where Somerset and Clarence comes! Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won: I have broke with her father, and his good will obtained: name the day of marriage, and God give thee joy!
York set him on; York should have sent him aid.
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home. I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished him.
It may chance cost some of us our lives, for he will stab.
And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn The special head of all the land together: The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster, The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt; And many moe corrivals and dear men Of estimation and command in arms.
Believe me, cousin Gloucester, Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly, We had had more sport. Come with thy two-hand sword.
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
I will, my lord. There are two gentlemen Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.
By Hercules, I think I am i' the right.
Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail? My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder, But I will chastise this high-minded strumpet.
I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen, To put a golden sceptre in thy hand And set a precious crown upon thy head, If thou wilt condescend to be my--
Ay; is it not a language I speak?
Worthily spoken, Mecnas.
Who's that? a Frenchman?
Thou art the king of honour: No man so potent breathes upon the ground But I will beard him. 
Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their parts with Beatrice; and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet.
Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your discourse is sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly basted on neither: ere you flout old ends any further, examine your conscience: and so I leave you.
Ha! 'twas a merry night. And is Jane Nightwork alive?
Sir, it is A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake To the extreme edge of hazard.
Since I saw you last, There is a change upon you.
Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine, Within this half-hour, hath received his sight; A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
Now am I cleane, or rather fouly out of the way.
Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly. This sword but shown to Csar, with this tidings, Shall enter me with him.
Where is my strength, my valour, and my force? Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them; A woman clad in armour chaseth them. Here, here she comes, I'll have a bout with thee; Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee: Blood will I draw on thee, thou art a witch, And straightway give thy soul to him thou servest.
My good lord! God give your lordship good time of day. I am glad to see your lordship abroad: I heard say your lordship was sick: I hope your lordship goes abroad by advice. Your lordship, though not clean past your youth, hath yet some smack of age in you, some relish of the saltness of time; and I must humbly beseech your lordship to have a reverent care of your health.
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor duke's officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
I will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.
Nay, that's past praying for: I have peppered two of them; two I am sure I have paid, two rogues in buckram suits. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse. Thou knowest my old ward; here I lay, and thus I bore my point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
Say not so, Agrippa: If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof Were well deserved of rashness.
Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
Take her away.
And if he aske why I demand so much, tell him, I scorne to write a line under a hundred crownes.
Not a penny, not a penny; you are too impatient to bear crosses. Fare you well: commend me to my cousin Westmoreland.
I'll whisper with the general, and know his pleasure.
Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
What! wherein Talbot overcame? is't so?
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
'Tis very true, Lord Bardolph: for indeed It was young Hotspur's case at Shrewsbury.
Indeed, good lady, The fellow has a deal of that too much, Which holds him much to have.
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose practices he hath persecuted time with hope, and finds no other advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time.
Which is one?
Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
Csar? Why, he's the Jupiter of men.
Pray thee, go down, good ancient.
All studies here I solemnly defy, Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke: And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales, But that I think his father loves him not And would be glad he met with some mischance, I would have him poison'd with a pot of ale.
And I shall.
Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?   I am for France.
Ah, whither shall I fly to 'scape their hands? Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, which his heart was not consenting to.
Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we leak in your chimney; and your chamber-lie breeds fleas like a loach.
Warwick and Clarence, give me both your hands: Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts, That no dissension hinder government: I make you both protectors of this land, While I myself will lead a private life And in devotion spend my latter days, To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
We hope no other from your majesty.
No, Plantagenet, 'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses, And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
The music, ho !
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
It seems then that the tidings of this broil Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
Poison'd, then.
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford? How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
Mark, Jack.
Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
No. Mortimer is not there.
In God's name, lead; your king's name be obey'd: And what God will, that let your king perform; And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
Know then, my name is Douglas; And I do haunt thee in the battle thus Because some tell me that thou art a king.
And 'tis no little reason bids us speed, To save our heads by raising of a head; For, bear ourselves as even as we can, The king will always think him in our debt, And think we think ourselves unsatisfied, Till he hath found a time to pay us home: And see already how he doth begin To make us strangers to his looks of love.
Sirrah, thy lord I honour as he is.
Now, Master Gower, what news?
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's able to lead her a coranto.
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend, That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us With some few bands of chosen soldiers, I'll undertake to land them on our coast And force the tyrant from his seat by war. 'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me, He's likely now to fall from him, For matching more for wanton lust than honour, Or than for strength and safety of our country.
Ay, but I hope your highness shall have his.
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
Ay, marry, uncle; for I always thought It was both impious and unnatural That such immanity and bloody strife Should reign among professors of one faith.
Write down, that they hope they serve God: and write God first; for God defend but God should go before such villains! Masters, it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves; and it will go near to be thought so shortly.   How answer you for yourselves ?
You give him then advantage.
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France, And keep not back your powers in dalliance.
We charge you, on allegiance to ourself, To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace. Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
Where did you find it then?
'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds, Hearing alarums at our chamber-doors.
Insulting Charles! hast thou by secret means Used intercession to obtain a league, And, now the matter grows to compromise, Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison? Either accept the title thou usurp'st, Of benefit proceeding from our king And not of any challenge of desert, Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
Then for the truth and plainness of the case, I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here, Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
Go we to him.
Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the streets, and no man regards it.
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes, Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
Thou bring'st me happiness and peace, son John; But health, alack, with youthful wings is flown From this bare withered trunk: upon thy sight My worldly business makes a period. Where is my Lord of Warwick?
Boblibindo chicurmurco.
She once being loof'd, The noble ruin of her magic, Antony, Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard, Leaving the fight in height, flies after her: I never saw an action of such shame; Experience, manhood, honor, ne'er before Did violate so itself.
The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne, With modesty admiring thy renown, By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe To visit her poor castle where she lies, That she may boast she hath beheld the man Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
At hand, quoth pickpurse. 
Here comes the townsmen on procession, To present your highness with the man.
I will reward thee Once for thy spritely comfort, and ten-fold For thy good valor. Come thee on.
At land, indeed, Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house : But, since the cuckoo builds not for himself, Remain in't as thou mayst.
Are you there, butcher?  O, I cannot speak!
Take her away; for she hath lived too long, To fill the world with vicious qualities.
Come, come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives' heels.
We shall, As I conceive the journey, be at the Mount Before you, Lepidus.
For ever should they be expulsed from France And not have title of an earldom here.
I do not know, my lord.
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
You take from me a great part of myself; Use me well in 't. Sister, prove such a wife As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony, Let not the piece of virtue, which is set Betwixt us as the cement of our love, To keep it builded, be the ram to batter The fortress of it; for better might we Have loved without this mean, if on both parts This be not cherish'd.
Suppose they take offence without a cause, They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward, Your king and Warwick's, and must have my will.
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the sensible Benedick's head?
Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done, And we must sleep. Does pay thy labor richly; go. Exit Mardian.  Off, pluck off: The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides ! Heart, once be stronger than thy continent, Crack thy frail case! Apace, Eros, apace. No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go; You have been nobly borne. From me awhile. Exit Eros.  I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now All length is torture: since the torch is out, Lie down, and stray no farther: now all labor Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles Itself with strength: seal then, and all is done. Eros !I come, my queen:Eros !Stay for me: Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand, And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze: Dido and her neas shall want troops, And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros! Re-enter EROS. 
But stirr'd by Cleopatra. Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours, Let's not confound the time with conference harsh: There's not a minute of our lives should stretch Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight ?
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags!
Dead, sir.
Follow the noise so far as we  have quarter; Let's see how it will give off.
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us
I know thee not, old man: fall to thy prayers; How ill white hairs become a fool and jester! I have long drearm'd of such a kind of man, So surfeit-swell'd, so old and so profane; But, being awaked, I do despise my dream. Make less thy body hence, and more thy grace; Leave gormandizing; know the grave doth gape For thee thrice wider than for other men. Reply not to me with a fool-born jest: Presume not that I am the thing I was; For God doth know, so shall the world perceive, That I have turn'd away my former self; So will I those that kept me company. When thou dost hear I am as I have been, Approach me, and thou shalt be as thou wast, The tutor and the feeder of my riots: Till then, I banish thee, on pain of death, As I have done the rest of my misleaders, Not to come near our person by ten mile. For competence of life I will allow you, That lack of means enforce you not to evil: And, as we hear you do reform yourselves, We will, according to your strengths and qualities, Give you advancement.   Be it your charge, my lord, To see perform'd the tenor of our word. Set on.
To-morrow, Csar, I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly Both what by sea and land I can be able To front this present time.
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
Well said; thou 'rt a good fellow.
'Demand of him, of what strength they are a-foot.' What say you to that?
Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower, Will you sit down? And uncle Worcester: a plague upon it! I have forgot the map.
Marry, thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a cloak, when honester men than thou go in their hose and doublets.
What manner o' thing is your crocodile ?
Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
Poins!   Poins, and be hanged!   Poins!
He a good wit? hang him, baboon! his wit's as thick as Tewksbury mustard; there's no more conceit in him than is in a mallet.

Yes, I do know him well, and common speech Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
The harder match'd, the greater victory: My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
Within the Temple-hall we were too loud; The garden here is more convenient.
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth Live scandalized and foully spoken of.
You must excuse me, Master Robert Shallow.
And it please your Majestie heere is a Frier of the order of the Jacobins, sent from the President of Paris, that craves accesse unto your grace.
But then are we in order when we are most out of order. Come, march forward.
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides; 'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
I fear thou art another counterfeit; And yet, in faith, thou bear'st thee like a king: But mind I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be, And thus I win thee.
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be time enough to go home. What shall I say I have done?   It must be a very plausive invention that carries it: they begin to smoke me; and disgraces have of late knocked too often at my door.   I find my tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the fear of Mars before it and of his creatures, not daring the reports of my tongue.
I did not think Master Silence had been a man of this mettle.
These lies are like their father that begets them; gross as a mountain, open, palpable.  Why, thou clay-brained guts, thou knotty-pated   fool, thou whoreson, obscene, greasy tallow-catch,
I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to the owner.
The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable; and there was he born, under a hedge, for his father had never a house but the cage.
I am as poor as Job, my lord, but not so patient: your lordship may minister the potion of imprisonment to me in respect of poverty; but how I should be your patient to follow your prescriptions, the wise may make some dram of a scruple, or indeed a scruple itself.
O blood-bespotted Neapolitan, Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge! The sons of York, thy betters in their birth, Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those That for my surety will refuse the boys! See where they come: I'll warrant they'll make it good. See where they come:  I'll warrant they'll make it good. Enter old CLIFFORD and his Son. 
Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours; Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized.
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice, That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me, The queen is coming with a puissant host; And craves your company for speedy counsel.
Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour Makes him oppose himself against his king.
Now, sir, a new link to the bucket must need be had: and, sir, do you mean to stop any of William's wages, about the sack he lost the other day at Hinckley fair?
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
How know you he loves her?
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well: The elements be kind to thee, and make Thy spirits all of comfort! fare thee well.
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that? Her father is no better than an earl, Although in glorious titles he excel.
Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony. He will to his Egyptian dish again: then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Csar; and, as I said before, that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance. Antony will use his affection where it is: he married but his occasion here.
And that is my petition, noble lord: For though he seem with forged quaint conceit To set a gloss upon his bold intent, Yet know, my lord, I was provoked by him; And he first took exceptions at this badge, Pronouncing that the paleness of this flower Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face,
I am vanquished; these haughty words of hers Have batter'd me like roaring cannon-shot, And made me almost yield upon my knees. Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen, And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace: My forces and my power of men are yours: So farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.
What, man ?
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to gain by you.
But methinks he should stand in fear of fire, being burnt i' the hand for stealing of sheep.
What shall we doe then?
But it raises the greater war between him and his discretion.
I carried it, I confesse, but who writ it? Marry, even he that strangled Bernardine , poyson'd the Nuns, 
and his owne daughter.
He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
Thou art perfect.
Your distinction?
I have done, i' faith.
Go, call her in. Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place: Question her proudly; let thy looks be stern: By this means shall we sound what skill she hath. Re-enter the BASTARD of Orleans, with JOAN LA PUCELLE. 
The third part, then, is drunk: would it were all, That it might go on wheels!
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is, But we will presently provide for them.
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanour! If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much, Thy mother took into her blameful bed Some stern untutor'd churl, and noble stock Was graft with crab-tree slip; whose fruit thou art And never of the Nevils' noble race.
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret, Sit down with us: it ill befits thy state And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
You have: I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your favor, sir, why, give God thanks, and make no boast of it; and for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch; therefore bear you the lantern. This is your charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the prince's name.
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring, And that thy summer bred us no increase, We set the axe to thy usurping root; And though the edge hath something hit ourselves, Yet, know thou, since we have begun to strike, We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down, Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
That is my office, for my father's sake.
Well; And well am like to do; for, I perceive, Four feasts are toward.
Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart: Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers; And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to thee, Or to the meanest groom.
I tell thee, Jack Cade the clothier means to dress the commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
If it do, you shall have a dozen of cushions again; you have but eleven now. Come, I charge you both go with me; for the man is dead that you and Pistol beat amongst you.
No, to my cabin. These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what! Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you have, I am one that, telling true under him, must say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
Come, manage me your caliver. So: very well: go to: very good, exceeding good. O, give me always a little, lean, old, chapt, bald shot. Well said, i' faith, Wart; thou'rt a good scab: hold, there's a tester for thee.
Call Buckingham, and all the friends thou hast, I am resolved for death or dignity.
Ay.
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
That I beheld: Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not Endure a further view.
Sons, peace!
Enter, go in; the market bell is rung.
Good madam, hear me.
Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.-- See here, my friends and loving countrymen, This token serveth for a flag of truce Betwixt ourselves and all our followers: So help me God. as I dissemble not!
Enobarbus, Antony Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with His bounty overplus: the messenger Came on my guard; and at thy tent is now Unloading of his mules.
Alas, my lord, hang me, if ever I spake the words. My accuser is my 'prentice; and when I did correct him for his fault the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with me: I have good witness of this; therefore I beseech your majesty, do not cast away an honest man for a villain's accusation.
Alas, a black ousel, cousin Shallow!
Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have his bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs: he will give the devil his due.
Injurious Margaret!
No, I'll be sworn; unless you call three fingers on the ribs bare.   But, sirrah, make haste: Percy is already in the field.
You whoreson candle-mine, you, how vilely did you speak of me even now be- fore this honest, virtuous, civil gentlewoman!
Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
As I am a gentleman.
It pleased your majesty to turn your looks Of favour from myself and all our house; And yet I must remember you, my lord, We were the first and dearest of your friends. For you my staff of office did I break In Richard's time; and posted day and night To meet you on the way, and kiss your hand, When yet you were in place and in account Nothing so strong and fortunate as I. It was myself, my brother and his son, That brought you home and boldly did outdare The dangers of the time. You swore to us, And you did swear that oath at Doncaster, That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state; Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right, The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster: To this we swore our aid. But in short space It rain'd down fortune showering on your head; And such a flood of greatness fell on you, What with our help, what with the absent king, What with the injuries of a wanton time, The seeming sufferances that you had borne, And the contrarious winds that held the king So long in his unlucky Irish wars That all in England did repute him dead: And from this swarm of fair advantages You took occasion to be quickly woo'd To gripe the general sway into your hand; Forgot your oath to us at Doncaster; And being fed by us you used us so As that ungentle gull, the cuckoo's bird, Useth the sparrow; did oppress our nest; Grew by our feeding to so great a bulk That even our love durst not come near your sight For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing We were enforced, for safety sake, to fly Out of your sight and raise this present head; Whereby we stand opposed by such means As you yourself have forged against yourself By unkind usage, dangerous countenance, And violation of all faith and troth Sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
Thou art so fat-witted, with drinking  of old sack and unbuttoning thee after supper and sleeping upon benches after noon, that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know. What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the day? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta, I see no reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand the time of the day.
How say'st thou, Charles? shall our condition stand?
My own knee! when I was about thy years, Hal, I was not an eagle's talon in the waist; I could have crept into any alderman's thumb-ring: a plague of sighing and grief! it blows a man up like a bladder. There's villanous  news abroad: here was Sir John Bracy from your father; you must to the court in the morning. That same mad fellow of the north, Percy, and he of Wales, that gave Amamon the bastinado and made Lucifer cuckold and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh hookwhat a plague call you him?
Where's Shadow?
God save you, Sir John!
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
I will deliver her.
Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the duke will drink under this tree. He hath been all this day to look you.
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak, In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts: Let him that is a true-born gentleman And stands upon the honour of his birth, If he suppose that I have pleaded truth, From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
What pagan may that be?
Do not say so, my lord.
Yea, or to-night.
Disturb him not; let him pass peaceably.
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is! Then thou dwellest with daws too?
Sirrah, where 's Snare?
Nay, gentle madam, to him, comfort him.
Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with't while 'tis vendible; answer the time of request. Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not now.  Your date is better in your pie and your porridge than in your cheek: and your virginity, your old virginity is like one of our French withered pears, it looks ill, it eats drily; marry, 'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better; marry, yet 'tis a withered pear: will you anything with it?
Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting. Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
Kiss me, Doll.
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege, To know the reason of these arms in peace; Or why thou, being a subject as I am, Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn, Should raise so great a power without his leave, Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter? pitiful-hearted Titan, that melted at the sweet tale of the sun's! if thou didst, then behold that compound.
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
Fie, uncle Beaufort!   I have heard you preach That malice was a great and grievous sin; And will not you maintain the thing you teach, But prove a chief offender in the same?
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.   Is't a verdict?
A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a cheerful look, a pleasing eye and a most noble carriage; and, as I think, his age some fifty, or, by 'r lady, inclining to three score; and now I remember me, his name is Falstaff: if that man should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry, I see virtue in his looks. If then the tree may be known by the fruit, as the fruit by the tree, then, peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in that Falstaff: him keep with, the rest banish. And tell me now, thou naughty varlet, tell me, where hast thou been this month?
The lamb.
A good varlet, a good varlet, a very good varlet, Sir John: by the mass, I have drunk too much sack at supper: a good varlet. Now sit down, now sit down: come, cousin.
For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, they would talk themselves mad. 
The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed, But match to match I have encounter'd him And made a prey for carrion kites and crows Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
Acordo linta. Come on; thou art granted space.
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
Their points being broken,
I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court: our old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court: the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
Alas, good master, my wife desired some damsons, And made me climb, with danger of my life.
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
Comes the king back from Wales, my noble lord?
Turn from me, then, that noble countenance, Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
You have not sought it! how comes it then?
You'd think it strange if I should marry her.
I blame not her, she could say little less; She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen? For I have heard that she was there in place.
If it might please you, to enforce no further The griefs between ye: to forget them quite Were to remember that the present need Speaks to atone you.
A whoreson cold, sir, a cough, sir, which I caught with ringing in the king's affairs upon his coronation-day, sir.
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? why, my skin hangs about me like an old lady's loose gown; I am withered like an old apple-john. Well, I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking; I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I shall have no strength to repent. An I have not forgotten what the inside of a church is made of, I am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a church!   Company, villanous company, hath been the spoil of me.
That you might still have worn the petticoat, And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
Cleopatra,
The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.
Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.
You've strange serpents there.
No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
Health and fair greeting from our general, The prince, Lord John and Duke of Lancaster.
Ephesians, my lord, of the old church.
Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
No, no, to decide all doubts, be rulde by me, lets hang him var:#heere] <I>omit</I>  Ch, Ox, R#   heere   upon this tree.
She doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will do a desperate outrage to herself: it is very true.
Father, you cannot disinherit me: If you be king, why should not I succeed?
Sir, I will be as good as my word: this that you heard was but a color.
Most sweet queen,
Nay, look not so upon me; we shall hear of your lordship anon.
Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this leter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to you, when I have held familiarity with fresher clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied in fortune's mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong displeasure.
Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.
Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
Tis a strange thing of that Jew, he lives upon pickled Grashoppers, and sauc'd Mushrumbs.
Let us withdraw into the other room.

Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
Medice, teipsum-- Protector, see to't well, protect yourself.
Jack Cade hath gotten London bridge: The citizens fly and forsake their houses: The rascal people, thirsting after prey, Join with the traitor, and they jointly swear To spoil the city and your royal court.
You keep by land The legions and the horse whole, do you not ?
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak. What! can so young a thorn begin to prick? Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects, And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no heritage: and I think I shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue o' my body; for they say barnes are blessings.
The breaking of so great a thing should make A greater crack: the round world Should have shook lions into civil streets, And citizens to their dens: the death of Antony Is not a single doom; in the name lay A moiety of the world.
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest your daughter told us of.
Nothing of me, has a'?
Brother, good night: to-morrow is the day.
By God, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster; I did not think thee lord of such a spirit: Before, I loved thee as a brother, John; But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame; And   since your coming hither have done enough To put him quite beside his patience. You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault: Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood, And that's the dearest grace it renders you, Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage, Defect of manners, want of government, Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain: The least of which haunting a nobleman Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stain Upon the beauty of all parts besides, Beguiling them of commendation.
Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him; he will not run.
He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme in's forehead.
I think so.
What answer makes your grace to the rebels' supplication?
Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
Royal wench! She made great Csar lay his sword to bed: He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
An oath is of no moment, being not took Before a true and lawful magistrate, That hath authority over him that swears: Henry had none, but did usurp the place; Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose, Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous. Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown; Within whose circuit is Elysium And all that poets feign of bliss and joy. Why do we linger thus? I cannot rest Until the white rose that I wear be dyed Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
My poor body, madam, requires it: I am driven on by the flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear? Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
Brave peers of England, pillars of the state, To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief, Your grief, the common grief of all the land. What! did my brother Henry spend his youth, His valour, coin and people, in the wars? Did he so often lodge in open field, In winter's cold and summer's parching heat, To conquer France, his true inheritance? And did my brother Bedford toil his wits, To keep by policy what Henry got? Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham, Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick, Received deep scars in France and Normandy? Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself, With all the learned council of the realm, Studied so long, sat in the council-house Early and late, debating to and fro How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe, And had his highness in his infancy Crowned in Paris in despite of foes? And shall these labours and these honours die? Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance, Your deeds of war and all our counsel die? O peers of England, shameful is this league! Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame, Blotting your names from books of memory, Razing the characters of your renown, Defacing monuments of conquer'd France, Undoing all, as all had never been!
Mouldy and Bullcalf: for you, Mouldy, stay at home till you are past service:  and for your part, Bullcalf, grow till you come unto it: I will none of you.
Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh And sees fast by a butcher with an axe, But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter? Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest, But may imagine how the bird was dead, Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak? Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
Will Csar speak?
Is Talbot slain? then will I slay myself, For living idly here in pomp and ease, Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid, Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
Peace, good Doll do not speak like a death's-head; do not bid me remember mine end.
From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there !
What heard you him say else?
I'll keep them all; By God, he shall not have a Scot of them; No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not: I'll keep them, by this hand.
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and be sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled?
They are his shards, and he their beetle. This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
Compassion on the king commands me stoop; Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest Should ever get that privilege of me.
His death's upon him, but not dead. Look out o' the other side your monument; His guard have brought him thither.
Let me alone.   Dost thou use to write thy name? or hast thou a mark to thyself, like an honest plain-dealing man?
Sir, Mark Antony Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
I took an oath that he should quietly reign.
If that be right which Warwick says is right, There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
Come, bid me do any thing for thee. 
May a man do it?
Home without boots, and in foul weather too! How 'scapes he agues, in the devil's name?
With news the time's with labor, and throes forth, Each minute, some.
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York, Before I see thee seated in that throne Which now the house of Lancaster usurps, I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close. This is the palace of the fearful king, And this the regal seat: possess it, York: For this is thine and not King Henry's heirs'.
Thus Suffolk hath prevailed; and thus he goes, As did the youthful Paris once to Greece, With hope to find the like event in love, But prosper better that the Trojan did. Margaret shall now be queen, and rule the king; But I will rule both her, the king and realm.
The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
So do we.
Whether it be through force of your report, My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that My tender youth was never yet attaint With any passion of inflaming love, I cannot tell; but this I am assured, I feel such sharp dissension in my breast, Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear, As I am sick with working of my thoughts. Take, therefore, shipping; post, my lord, to France; Agree to any covenants, and procure That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come To cross the seas to England and be crown'd King Henry's faithful and anointed queen: For your expenses and sufficient charge, Among the people gather up a tenth. Be gone, I say; for, till you do return, I rest perplexed with a thousand cares. And you, good uncle, banish all offence: If you do censure me by what you were, Not what you are, I know it will excuse This sudden execution of my will. And so, conduct me where, from company, I may revolve and ruminate my grief.
Lord Say, the traitors hate thee; Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
Contemning Rome, he has done all this, and more, In Alexandria: here's the manner of 't: I' the market-place, on a tribunal silver'd, Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold Were publicly enthroned: at the feet sat Csarion, whom they call my father's son, And all the unlawful issue that their lust Since then hath made between them. Unto her He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia, Absolute queen.
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns, To make this shameless callet know herself. Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou, Although thy husband may be Menelaus; And ne'er was Agamemnon's brother wrong'd By that false woman, as this king by thee. His father revell'd in the heart of France, And tamed the king, and made the dauphin stoop; And had he match'd according to his state, He might have kept that glory to this day; But when he took a beggar to his bed, And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day, Even then that sunshine brew'd a shower for him, That wash'd his father's fortune forth of France, And heap'd sedition on his crown at home. For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride? Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept; And we, in pity of the gentle king, Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
My mind will never grant what I perceive Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
I'll be so bold to take what they have left. The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword; For I have loaden me with many spoils, Using no other weapon but his name.
Yea, marry, let me have him to sit under: he's like to be a cold soldier.
Or be inferior to the proudest peer. Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive That, neither in birth or for authority, The bishop will be overborne by thee: I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee, Or sack this country with a mutiny. Exeunt. 
What! will you fly, and leave Lord Talbot?
No, by my soul; I never in my life Did hear a challenge urged more modestly, Unless a brother should a brother dare To gentle exercise and proof of arms. He gave you all the duties of a man; Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue, Spoke your deservings like a chronicle, Making you ever better than his praise By still dispraising praise valued with you; And, which became him like a prince indeed, He made a blushing cital of himself; And chid his truant youth with such a grace As if he master'd there a double spirit Of teaching and of learning instantly. There did he pause: but let me tell the world, If he outlive the envy of this day, England did never owe so sweet a hope, So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
By sea, by sea.
With Poins, and other his continual followers.
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; a word in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought you are false knaves.
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin, I should not for my life but weep with him, To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine. 
No slander; they steal hearts.
'Sblood, my lord, they are false: nay, I'll tickle ye for a young prince, i' faith.
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this: I'll none of him.
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
Exeter, so will I.
Yes, if this present quality of war, Indeed the instant action: a cause on foot Lives so in hope as in early spring We see the appearing buds; which to prove fruit, Hope gives not so much warrant as despair That frosts will bite them. When we mean to build, We first survey the plot, then draw the model; And when we see the figure of the house, Then must we rate the cost of the erection; Which if we find outweighs ability, What do we then but draw anew the model In fewer offices, or at last desist To build at all?   Much more, in this great work, Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down And set another up, should we survey The plot of situation and the model, Consent upon a sure foundation, Question surveyors, know our own estate, How able such a work to undergo, To weigh against his opposite; or else We fortify in paper and in figures, Using the names of men instead of men: Like one that draws the model of a house Beyond his power to build it; who, half through, Gives o'er and leaves his part-created cost A naked subject to the weeping clouds And waste for churlish winter's tyranny.
In any case, be not too rough in terms; For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
These quick-sands, Lepidus, Keep off them, for you sink.
'Tis your noblest course. Wisdom and fortune combating together, If that the former dare but what it can, No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay My duty on your hand.
Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray, But one imperious in another's throne?
Enough to purchase what you have made known.
Then pay thy halfe.
I must be gone.
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays; Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
I feel remorse in myself with his words; but I'll bridle it: he shall die, an it be but for pleading so well for his life. Away with him! he has a familiar under his tongue; he speaks not o' God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike off his head presently; and then break into his son-in-law's house, Sir James Cromer, and strike off his head, and bring them both upon two poles hither.
If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your office, to be no true man; and, for such kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them, why, the more is for your honesty.
What proof shall I make of that?
All dead.
No, not to lose it all, as thou hast done: I rather would have lost my life betimes Than bring a burthen of dishonour home By staying there so long till all were lost. Show me one scar character'd on thy skin: Men's flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no further.
Go to; I say he shall have no wrong. Look about, Davy. Where are you, Sir John? Come, come, come, off with your boots. Give me your hand, Master Bardolph.
'Twill be naught: But let it be. Bring me to Antony. 
Ha! a bastard son of the king's? And
art not thou Poins his brother?
My being in Egypt, Csar, What was't to you ?
Then so much have I heard: And I have heard, Apollodorus carried-
From worthy Edward, King of Albion, My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend, I come, in kindness and unfeigned love, First, to do greetings to thy royal person; And then to crave a league of amity; And lastly, to confirm that amity With nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister, To England's king in lawful marriage.
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid; Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid: Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
Of one or both of us the time is come.
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's rush for Tom's forefinger,  as a pancake for Shrove Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding quean to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
Let them go. I 'll through Gloucestershire;  and there will I visit Master Robert Shallow, esquire: I have him already tempering  between my finger and my thumb, and shortly will I seal with him. Come away.
For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
All hail, my lords!   Which of this princely train Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts So much applauded   through the realm   of France?
My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel; I know not where I am, nor what I do: A witch, by fear, not force, like Hannibal, Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists: So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench Now, like to whelps, we crying run away. They call'd us for our fierceness English dogs; Now, like to whelps, we crying run away. Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight, Or tear the lions out of England's coat; Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead: Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf, Or horse or oxen from the leopard, As you fly from your oft-subdued slaves. Alarum. Here another skirmish.  It will not be: retire into your trenches: You all consented unto Salisbury's death, For none would strike a stroke in his revenge. Pucelle is enter'd into Orleans, In spite of us or aught that we could do. O, would I were to die with Salisbury! The shame hereof will make me hide my head. Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat; flourish. 
Ten is the hour that was appointed me To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess: Uneath may she endure the flinty streets, To tread them with her tender-feeling feet. Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook The abject people gazing on thy face, With envious looks, laughing at thy shame, That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets. But, soft! I think she comes; and I'll prepare My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with all honorable virtues.
I do not know, Mecnas; ask Agrippa.
Your money!
Fie! charity, for shame speak not in spite, For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.
Not so. Adieu.
Why Barabas wilt thou be  christened  christned  ?
Praising what is lost Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither; We are reconciled, and the first view shall kill All repetition: let him not ask our pardon; The nature of his great offence is dead, And deeper than oblivion we do bury The incensing relics of it: let him approach, A stranger, no offender; and inform him So 'tis our will he should.
Make me not offended In your distrust.
'Tis a spell, you see, of much power: you know the way home again.
What's he comes here?
How liberally the villian gives me mine own gold.
Do thou stand for my father, and examine me upon the particulars of my life.
But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four o'clock, early at Gadshill! there are pilgrims going to Canterbury with rich offerings, and traders riding to London with fat purses: I have vizards for you all; you have horses for yourselves: Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester: I have bespoke supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap: we may do it as secure as sleep. If you will go, I will stuff your purses full of crowns; if you will not, tarry at home and be hanged.
Iden, farewell, and be proud of thy victory. Tell Kent from me, she hath lost her best man, and exhort all the world to be cowards; for I, that never feared any, am vanquished by famine, not by valour.
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
Your pleasure, sir?
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his Was never yet for sleep.
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
As thou art a knave, and no knave. What an equivocal companion is this!
My cousin Vernon! welcome, by my soul.
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong, Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence: May that ground gape and swallow me alive, Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
Is thy name Mouldy?
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold; Marry, and shall.   But, how now, Sir John Hume! Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum: The business asketh silent secrecy. Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch: Gold cannot come amiss, were she a devil. Yet have I gold flies from another coast; I dare not say, from the rich cardinal And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk, Yet I do find it so; for, to be plain, They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour, Have hired me to undermine the duchess And buz these conjurations in her brain. They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker;' Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker. Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near To call them both a pair of crafty knaves. Well, so it stands: and thus, I fear, at last Hume's knavery will be the duchess' wreck, And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall: Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
Welcome hither: Your letters did withhold our breaking forth; Till we perceived, both how you were wrong led, And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart; Be you not troubled with the time, which drives O'er your content these strong necessities; But let determined things to destiny Hold unbewail'd   their way. Welcome to Rome; Nothing more dear to me. You are abused Beyond the mark of thought: and the high gods, To do you justice, make them ministers Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort; And ever welcome to us.
O God, I fear all will be overturn'd!
Peace, ye fat-guts! lie down; lay thine ear close to the ground and list if thou canst hear the tread of travellers.
The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
Mine, Hal, mine.
For Antony, I have no ears to his request. The queen Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she From Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend, Or take his life there: this if she perform, She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.
Now thou'rt troublesome.
Now am I seated as my soul delights, Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
Yea, if he said my ring was copper.
That argues but the shame of your offence: A rotten case abides no handling.
Some treason, masters: yet stand close.
And how doth thy master, Bardolph?
Why dost thou quiver, man?
Cleopatra, Do not abuse my master's bounty by The undoing of yourself: let the world see His nobleness well acted, which your death Will never let come forth.
Come on, come on, come on, sir; give me your hand, sir, give me your hand, sir: an early stirrer, by the rood! And how doth my good cousin Silence?
But wherefore did he take away the crown? Lo, where he comes.   Come hither to me, Harry. Depart the chamber, leave us here alone. [Exeunt Warwick and the rest. 
Ha, no, no, faith; thou singest well enough for a shift.
Our hearts receive your warnings.
What is the matter? keep the peace here, ho!
Then on, my lords; and France be fortunate.
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
Then gather strength and march unto him straight: Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason And what offence it is to flout his friends.
 In thine own person answer thy abuse.
What foolish master taught you these manners, Sir John?
Come all his forces back?
This can be no trick: the conference was sadly borne. They have the truth of this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it seems her affections have their full bent. Love me! why, it must be requited. I hear how I am censured: they say I will bear myself proudly, if I perceive the love come from her: they say too that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did never think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy are they that hear their detractions and can put them to mending. They say the lady is fair; 'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous; 'tis so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may choice have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me, because I have railed so long against marriage: but doth not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain awe a man from the career of his humor?   No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I were married. Here comes Beatrice. By this day! she's a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in her.
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's; And now forthwith shall articles be drawn Touching the jointure that your king must make, Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised. Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
I slew thy father, call'st thou him a child?
Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face; Frank nature, rather curious than in haste, Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts Mayst thou inherit too!   Welcome to Paris.
Our interpreter does it well.
Cried he ? and begg'd a' pardon ?
Why  ,   stricken him that would have stroke at me.
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight; And learn this lesson, draw thy sword in right.
Yea, but a little charge will trench him here And on this north side win this cape of land; And then he runs straight and even.
There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn fox; and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you thing, go.
How bloodily the sun begins to peer Above yon busky hill! the day looks pale At his distemperature.
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines, With written pamphlets studiously devised, Humphrey of Gloucester?   If thou canst accuse, Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge, Do it without invention, suddenly; As I with sudden and extemporal speech Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
We'll fight with him   to-night.
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
God let me not live, but I will murder your ruff for this.
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings.
We may, sir, if we will.
You have heard much.
This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold linguist and the armipotent soldier.
Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord: Consent, and for thy honour give consent, Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king; Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto; And this her easy-held imprisonment Hath gain'd thy daughter princely liberty.
Knock him down there.
Fear you not that: if we can make our peace Upon such large terms and so absolute As our conditions shall consist upon, Our peace shall stand as firm as rocky mountains.
I take her hand.
Away, varlets! Draw, Bardolph: cut me off the villain's head: throw the quean in the channel.
When it appears to you where this begins, Turn your displeasure that way; for our faults Can never be so equal, that your love Can equally move with them. Provide your going; Choose your own company, and command what cost Your heart has mind to.
Will you have me, lady?
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,
Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake but by a metaphor.
Seven? why, there were but four even now.
You have done well by water.
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love have all his rites.
I cannot read them now. O gentlemen, the time of life is short! To spend that shortness basely were too long, If life did ride upon a dial's point, Still ending at the arrival of an hour. And if we live, we live to tread on kings; If die, brave death, when princes die with us! Now, for our consciences, the arms are fair, When the intent of bearing them is just.
I prithee, peace, good queen, And whet not on these furious peers; For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
Farewell, my lord: what you shall know meantime Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir, To let me be partaker.
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day: Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
What color is it of?
He calls for the tortures: what will you say without 'em?
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: for, sweet prince, An if your grace mark every circumstance, You have great reason to do Richard right; Especially for those occasions At Eltham Place I told your majesty.
Base dunghill villain and mechanical, I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech. I do beseech your royal majesty, Let him have all the rigour of the law.
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life. As for the brat of this accursed duke, Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
Madam, According as your ladyship desired, By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.
He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
Yes, my lord, her father is a king, The King of Naples and Jerusalem; And of such great authority in France As his alliance will confirm our peace And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
Not so, my lord; your ill angel is light; but I hope he that looks upon me will take me without weighing: and yet, in some respects, I grant, I cannot go: I cannot tell. Virtue is of so little regard in these costermonger times that true valour is turned bearherd: pregnancy is made a tapster, and hath his quick wit wasted in giving reckonings: all the other gifts appertinent to man, as the malice of this age shapes them, are not worth a gooseberry. You that are old consider not the capacities of us that are young; you do measure the heat of our livers with the bitterness of your galls: and we that are in the vaward of our youth, I must confess, are wags too.
Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest; serve with thy trencher, hence! Exit third Servingman.  Enter AUFIDIUS with the second Servingman. 
What plain proceeding is more plain than this? Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt, The fourth son; York claims it from the third. Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not. It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock. Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together; And in this private plot be we the first That shall salute our rightful sovereign With honour of his birthright to the crown.
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
Francis!
State holy or unhallow'd, what of that? Is not his grace protector to the king?
But, with the first of all your chief affairs, Let me entreat, for I command no more, That Margaret your queen and my son Edward Be sent for, to return from France with speed; For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
I hear there is an overture of peace.
My lords, before it pleased his majesty To raise my state to title of a queen, Do me but right, and you must all confess That I was not ignoble of descent; And meaner than myself have had like fortune. But as this title honours me and mine, So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing, Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord! When I was young, as yet I am not old, I do remember how   my father said A stouter champion never handled sword. Long since we were resolved of your truth, Your faithful service and your toil in war; Yet never have you tasted our reward, Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks, Because till now we never saw your face: Therefore, stand up; and, for these good deserts, We here create you Earl of Shrewsbury; And in our coronation take your place.
These things shall be done, sir.
Here, here.
Here comes my servant Travers, whom I sent On Tuesday last to listen after news.
And so am I.
Plutus himself, That knows the tinct and multiplying medicine, Hath not in nature's mystery more science Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's, Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know That you are well acquainted with yourself, Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety That she would never put it from her finger, Unless she gave it to yourself in bed, Where you have never come, or sent it us Upon her great disaster.
So I do, against my will.
What would your majesty?   How fares your grace?
I'll call for clubs, if you will not away. This cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
Nor any one.
I'll make it greater ere I part from thee; And all the budding honours on thy crest I'll crop, to make a garland for my head.
But entertain it, And, though thou think me poor, I am the man Will give thee all the world.
Why, then, it is like, if there come a hot June and this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy' maidenheads as they buy hob-nails, by the hundreds.
In a false quarrel there is no true valor. I came to seek you both.
My lord,
Disloyal?
Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought, I cannot tell how to term it.
O loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester, How joyful am I made by this contract! Away, my masters! trouble us no more; But join in friendship, as your lords have done.
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
You, gentlewoman,--
O monstrous coward! what, to come behind folks?
Only to despite them, I will endeavor any thing.
 an if thou darest, This evening, on the east side of the grove.
From off the gates of York fetch down the head, Your father's head, which Clifford placed there; Instead whereof let this supply the room: Measure for measure must be answered.
Lo thee!
Now I must To the young man send humble treaties, dodge And palter in the shifts of lowness; who With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased, Making and marring fortunes. You did know How much you were my conqueror; and that My sword, made weak by my affection, would Obey it on all cause.

No, no, no, no, no.
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king, And not be tied unto his brother's will.
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
Now, have you left pursuit?
And to make us no better thought of, a little help will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
Didst thou not hear somebody?
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I tell thee so before, because I would not fall out with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well looked to, without any tricks.
Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
Lets throw him into the river.
There's the point.
And fair words to them.
Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to night! Comets, importing change of time and states, Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky, And with them scourge the bad revolting stars That have consented unto Henry's death! King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long! England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off, Lest bleeding you do paint the white rose red And fall on my side so, against your will.
Say'st thou me so?   What colour is this cloak of?
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you; here's that shall drive some of them to a noncome: only get the learned writer to set down our excommunication and meet me at the gaol.
Where's our general?
Who keeps the gate here, ho? Where is the earl?
Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown. What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
I must with haste from hence.
What is thy name, that in the battle thus Thou crossest me? what honour dost thou seek Upon my head?
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
Now, messenger, what letters or what news From France?
Be merry, be merry, my wife has all; For women are shrews, both short and tall: 'Tis merry in hall when beards wag all, And welcome merry Shrove-tide. Be merry, be merry.
Where did you buy it? or who gave it you?
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
As heart can think: there is not such a word Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say they are married: but thou art too fine in thy evidence; therefore stand aside. This ring, you say, was yours?
O Antony ! I have follow'd thee to this; but we do lance Diseases in our bodies: I must perforce Have shown to thee such a declining day, Or look on thine; we could not stall together In the whole world: but yet let me lament, With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts, That thou, my brother, my competitor In top of all design, my mate in empire, Friend and companion in the front of war, The arm of mine own body, and the heart Where mine his thoughts did kindle,that our stars, Unreconciliable, should divide Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends, But I will tell you at some meeter season: The business of this man looks out of him; We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you ?
Csar must think, When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now Make boot of his distraction: never anger Made good guard for itself.
An we shall be merry, now comes in the sweet o' the night.
I am indeed.
So the gods preserve thee !
The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
Little Helen, farewell; if I can remember thee, I will think of thee at court.
Ay, my lord cardinal? how think you by that? Were it not good your grace could fly to heaven?
I take your princely word for these redresses.
Before, and greet his grace: my lord, we come.
Revolted Mortimer! He never did fall off, my sovereign liege, But by the chance of war: to prove that true Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds, Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took, When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank, In single opposition, hand to hand, He did confound the best part of an hour In changing hardiment with great Glendower: Three times they breathed and three times did they drink, Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood; Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks, Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds, And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank Bloodstained with these valiant combatants. Never did base and rotten policy Colour her working with such deadly wounds; Nor never could the noble Mortimer Receive so many, and all willingly: Then let not him be slander'd with revolt.
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome.
Call him my king by whose injurious doom My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere, Was done to death? and more than so, my father Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years, When nature brought him to the door of death? No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm, This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
My wife descended of the Lacies,--
Make fires, heat irons, let the racke be fetch'd.
What, is the old king dead?
Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers; And for your brother, he was lately sent From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy, With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you know: if you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
Who craves a parley with the Burgundy?
I will make my very house reel to-night: a letter for me!
I am inform'd that he comes toward London, To set the crown once more on Henry's head: Guess thou the rest; King Edward's friends must down, But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,-- For trust not him   that hath once broken faith,-- I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary, To save at least the heir of Edward's right: There shall I rest secure from force and fraud. Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly: If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be, which pitifully disaster the cheeks. Enter CSAR, ANTONY,LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECNAS, ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains. 
Fear not that, my lord.
I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land To any well-deserving friend; But in the way of bargain, mark ye me, I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair. Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?
My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside and take up commodities upon our bills?
Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck: To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault, Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power To give it from me.
Under the canopy?
Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know his brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
Let that go: My haste is very great: farewell; hie home.
Nothing. What news ?
Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once both the office of God and the devil?   One brings thee in grace and the other brings thee out. king's coming; I know by his trumpets. Sirrah,  inquire further after me; I had talk of you last night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall eat; go to, follow.
Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will. Kent, in the Commentaries Csar writ, Is term'd the civil'st place of all this isle: Sweet is the country, because full of riches; The people liberal, valiant, active, wealthy; Which makes me hope you are not void of pity. I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy, Yet, to recover them, would lose my life. Justice with favour have I always done; Prayers and tears have moved me, gifts could never. When have I aught exacted at your hands, But to maintain the king, the realm and you? Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks, Because my book preferr'd me to the king, And seeing ignorance is the curse of God, Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven, Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits, You cannot but forbear to murder me: This tongue hath parley'd unto foreign kings For your behoof,--
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester, That hath so long been resident in France?
The archdeacon hath divided it Into three limits very equally: England, from Trent and Severn hitherto, By south and east is to my part assign'd: All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore, And all the fertile land within that bound, To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you The remnant northward, lying off from Trent. And our indentures tripartite are drawn; Which being sealed interchangeably, A business that this night may execute, To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth To meet your father and the Scottish power, As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury. My father Glendower is not ready yet, Nor shall we need his help these fourteen days. Within that space you may have drawn together Your tenants, friends and neighbouring gentlemen.
Come, come, go in with me. 'Tis with my mind As with the tide swell'd up unto his height, That makes a still-stand, running neither way: Fain would I go to meet the archbishop, But many thousand reasons hold me back. I will resolve for Scotland: there am I, Till time and vantage crave my company.
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no more in your respect.
Let me not understand you, then; speak it in Welsh.
Methinks my lord should be religious And know the office that belongs to such.
First, lean thine aged back aganist mine arm; And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease. This day, in argument upon a case, Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me; Among which terms he used his lavish tongue And did upbraid me with my, father's death: Which obloquy set bars before my tongue, Else with the like I had requited him. Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake, In honour of a true Plantagenet And for alliance sake, declare the cause My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown? Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York; Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March: I am the son of Henry the Fifth, Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop And seized upon their towns and provinces.
I do, thou most usurping proditor, And not protector of the king or realm.
Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with thee to disgrace her.
Let it do something, my good lord, that may do me good, and call it what you will.
Your wondrous rare description, noble earl, Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me: Her virtues graced with external gifts Do breed love's settled passions in my heart: And like as rigour of tempestuous gusts Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide, So am I driven by breath of her renown Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive Where I may have fruition of her love.
Has not the boy profited?
Exceeding ill.
And would you not do much to do them good?
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
As I was then advised by my learned counsel in the laws of this land-service, I did not come.
The Duke of Bedford had a prisoner Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles; For him was I exchanged and ransomed. But with a baser man of arms by far Once in contempt they would have barter'd me: Which I disdaining scorn'd and craved death Rather than I would be so vile-esteem'd. In fine, redeem'd I was as I desired. But O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart, Whom with my bare fists I would execute, If I now had him brought into my power.
I am resolved to bear a greater storm Than any thou canst conjure up to-day; And that I'll write upon thy burgonet, Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
You do not counsel well: You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
That I love her, I feel.
First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
You shall hear one anon.
Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
Lords, let him go.   Please it your majesty, This is the day appointed for the combat; And ready are the appellant and defendant, The armourer and his man, to enter the lists, So please your highness to behold the fight.
To you all three, The senators alone of this great world, Chief factors for the gods, I do not know Wherefore my father should revengers want, Having a son and friends; since Julius Csar, Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted, There saw you laboring for him. What was't That moved pale Cassius to conspire; and what Made the all-honor'd, honest Roman, Brutus, With the arm'd rest, courtiers and beauteous freedom, To drench the Capitol; but that they would Have one man but a man ? And that is it Hath made me rig my navy; at whose burthen The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meant To scourge the ingratitude that despiteful Rome Cast on my noble father.
Where is the queen ?
Will you we show our title to the crown? If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
Who is it like should lead his forces hither?
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
Pardona moy, be no in tune yet; so  ,   now, now all be in.
Faith, sir, has led the drum before the English tragedians; to belie him, I will not, and more of his soldiership I know not; except, in that country he had the honour to be the officer at a place there called Mile-end, to instruct for the doubling of files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of this I am not certain.
Hear it apart.
Ay, Margaret; my heart is drown'd with grief, Whose flood begins to flow within mine eyes, My body round engirt with misery, For what's more miserable than discontent? Ah, uncle Humphrey! in thy face I see The map of honour, truth and loyalty: And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come That e'er I proved thee false or fear'd thy faith. What louring star now envies thy estate, That these great lords and Margaret our queen Do seek subversion of thy harmless life? Thou never didst them wrong nor no man wrong; And as the butcher takes away the calf And binds the wretch and beats it when it strays, Bearing it to the bloody slaughter-house, Even so remorseless have they borne him hence; And as the dam runs lowing up and down, Looking the way her harmless young one went, And can do nought but wail her darling's loss, Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes Look after him and cannot do him good, So mighty are his vowed enemies. His fortunes I will weep and 'twixt each groan Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.
Go, call our uncle to our presence straight; Say we intend to try his grace to-day, If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
Now fetch me a stool hither by and by. Now, sirrah, if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me over this stool and run away.
Hail, Csar, and my lord ! hail, most dear Csar!
So you had need; for Orleans is besieged; The English army is grown weak and faint: The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply, And hardly keeps his men from mutiny, Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
No, no; we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it. Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you mercy, friend; go you with me, and I will use your skill. Good cousin, have a care this busy time. [Exeunt. 
My lord, will you walk? dinner is ready.
Lady, will you walk about with your friend?
You strain too far. I rather of his absence make this use: It lends a lustre and more great opinion, A larger dare to our great enterprise, Than if the earl were here; for men must think, If we without his help can make a head To push against a kingdom, with his help We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down. Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.
Beshrew your heart, Fair daughter, you do draw my spirits from me With new lamenting ancient oversights. But I must go and meet with danger there, Or it will seek me in another place And find me worse provided.
I wud you were his father too, Sir, that's al the harm I wish you: the slave looks like a hogs cheek 
new sindg'd.
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they wipe their lips.
Against my brother Lucius ?
Pucelle hath bravely play'd her part in this, And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel higher, or return again into France?
How might we see Falstaff bestow himself to-night in his true colours, and not ourselves be seen?
I' faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's head and a capon; the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find a woodcock too?
Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright: Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured Eleanor, Art thou not second woman in the realm, And the protector's wife, beloved of him? Hast thou not worldly pleasures at command, Above the reach or compass of thy thought? And wilt thou still be hammering treachery, To tumble down thy husband and thyself From top of honour to disgrace's feet? Away from me, and let me hear no more!
I think so too. But you shall find, the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity: Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.
There's little can be said in't; 'tis against the rule of nature.   To speak on the part of virginity, is to accuse your mothers; which is most infallible disobedience. He that hangs himself is a virgin; virginity murders itself and should be buried in highways out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate offendress against nature.   Virginity breeds mites, much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach. Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but lose by 't: out with't! within ten year it will make itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the principal itself not much the worse: away with 't!
Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have nothing, is to be a great part of your title; which is within a very little of nothing.
So, Dolabella, It shall content me best: be gentle to her. To Csar I will speak what you shall please, If you'll employ me to him.
What company?
Ay, my lord.
O heavenly God!
Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
Why, do you not know him?
From a God to a bull? a heavy descension! it was Jove's case. From a prince to a prentice? a low transformation! that shall be mine; for in every thing the purpose must weigh the folly. Follow me, Ned.
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector And lookest to command the prince and realm. Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe, More than God or religious churchmen may.
Happily, amen!
Especially in pride.
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a parrot, and yet the son of a woman!   His industry is up-stairs and down-stairs; his eloquence the parcel of reckoning.  I am   not yet of Percy's mind, the Hotspur of the north; he that kills me some six or seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his hands, and says to his wife 'Fie upon this quiet life! I want work.' 'O my sweet Harry,' says she, 'how many hast thou killed   to-day?' 'Give my roan horse a drench,' says he; and answers 'Some fourteen,'  an hour after; 'a trifle, a trifle.'   I prithee, call in Falstaff: I'll play Percy, and that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer  his wife.   'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call in tallow.
Instruct us, boy; what dream, boy?
O my good lord, Believe not all; or, if you must believe, Stomach not all. A more unhappy lady, If this division chance, ne'er stood between, Praying for both parts: The good gods will mock me presently, When I shall pray, 'O, bless my lord and husband !' Undo that prayer, by crying out as loud, 'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother, Prays, and destroys the prayer; no midway 'Twixt these extremes at all.
My lord, I'll tell you what; If my young lord your son have not the day, Upon mine honour, for a silken point I'll give my barony; never talk of it.
I have thought upon it, it shall be so. Away, burn all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be the parliament of England.
Master constable, you go not the way to examine: you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
I was, an't like your majesty.
Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
Away, you rogue! dost thou not hear them call? Enter Vintner. 
Farewell, kinsman: I'll talk to you When you are better temper'd to attend.
I heard not of it before.
And good reason; for thereby is England mained, and fain to go with a staff, but that my puissance holds it up.   Fellow kings, I tell you that that Lord Say hath gelded the commonwealth, and made it an eunuch: and more than that, he can speak French; and therefore he is a traitor.
Ned, where are our disguises?
Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
Never any did so, though very many have been beside their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrels; draw, to pleasure us.
My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly scratched.
Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
Pompey, a word.
To say the truth, this fact was infamous And ill beseeming any common man, Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.
I grieve to hear what torments you endured, But we will be revenged sufficiently. Now it is supper-time in Orleans: Here, through this grate, I count each one And view the Frenchmen how they fortify: Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee. Sir Thomas Gargrave, and Sir William Glansdale, Let me have your express opinions Where is best place to make our battery next.
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Csar, Made out of her impatience, which not wanted Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant Did you too much disquiet: for that you must But say, I could not help it.
Yes, my lord, if it please your grace.
Here, hard by:   stand close.
I'll not have it alter'd.
This argues what her kind of life hath been, Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
I do allow this wen to be as familiar with me as my dog; and he holds his place; for look you how he writes.
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands; For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
Round even to faultiness.
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
The church! where is it? Had not churchmen pray'd, His thread of life had not so soon decay'd: None do you like but an effeminate prince, Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
' I will imitate the honorable Romans in brevity:' he sure means brevity in breath, short-winded. 'I commend me to thee, I commend thee, and I leave thee. Be not too familiar with Poins; for he misuses thy favors so much, that he swears thou art to marry his sister Nell. Repent at idle times as thou mayest; and so, farewell. 'Thine, by yea and no, which is as much as to say, as thou usest him, JACK FALSTAFF with my familiars, JOHN with my brothers and sisters, and SIR JOHN with all Europe.' My lord, I'll steep this letter in sack and make him eat it.
He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister: for rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus: he professes not keeping of oaths; in breaking 'em he is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with such volubility, that you would think truth were a fool; drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little harm, save to his bed-clothes about him; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but little more to say, sir, of his honesty: he has every thing that an honest man should not have; what an honest man should have, he has nothing.
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you, sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather than lack it where there is such abundance.
Spake you of Csar ? How! the nonpareil !
Why, he is dead. See what a ready tongue suspicion hath! He that but fears the thing he would not know Hath by instinct knowledge from others' eyes That what he fear'd is chanced. Yet speak, Morton; Tell thou an earl his divination lies, And I will take it as a sweet disgrace And make thee rich for doing me such wrong.
An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd. Be not offended, nature's miracle, Thou art allotted to be ta'en by me: So doth the swan her downy cygnets save, Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings. Yet, if this servile usage once offend, Go and be free again as Suffolk's friend. O, stay! I have no power to let her pass; My hand would free her, but my heart says no. As plays the sun upon the glassy streams, Twinkling another counterfeited beam, So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes. Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak: I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind. Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself; Hast not a tongue? is she not here? Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight? Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such, Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
Signior, you are very near my brother in his love: he is enamored on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may do the part of an honest man in it.
What, is he fled?   Go some, and follow him; And he that brings his head unto the king Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward. Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean To reconcile you all unto the king. [Exeunt. 
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head; For I intend to have it ere long.
Stand close, and list him.
And Smith the weaver,--
Are not you Sir John Falstaff?
That will I, Pompey.
I humbly thank you, sir: a truth's a truth, the rogues are marvellous poor.
Not I, believe me. 
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it. The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife And perish ye, with your audacious prate! Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed With this immodest clamorous outrage To trouble and disturb the king and us? And you, my lords, methinks you do not well To bear with their perverse objections; Much less to take occasion from their mouths To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves: Let me persuade you take a better course.
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel, As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds, I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
I pray you, sir, then set your kinght- hood and your soldiership aside; and give me leave to tell you, you lie in your throat, if you say I am any other than an honest man.
And I to this.
Lord Buckingham, methinks, you watch'd her well: A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon! Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ. What have we here? 'The duke yet lives, that Henry shall depose; But him outlive, and die a violent death.' Why, this is just 'Aio te, AEacida, Romanos vincere posse.' Well, to the rest: 'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk? By water shall he die, and take his end. What shall betide the Duke of Somerset? Let him shun castles; Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains Than where castles mounted stand.' Come, come, my lords; These oracles are hardly attain'd, And hardly understood. The king is now in progress towards Saint Alban's, With him the husband of this lovely lady: Thither go these news, as fast as horse can carry them: A sorry breakfast for my lord protector.
Csar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst Pompey, presently denied him rivality; would not let him partake in the glory of the action: and not resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him: so the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
I go.   Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
And wherefore should these good news make me sick? Will Fortune never come with both hands full, But write her fair words still in foulest letters? She either gives a stomach and no food; Such are the poor, in health; or else a feast And takes away the stomach; such are the rich, That have abundance and enjoy it not. I should rejoice now at this happy news; And now my sight fails, and my brain is giddy: O me! come near me; now I am much ill.
One word, good citizens.
Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the door: shall we be merry?
See that he be convey'd unto the Tower: And go we, brothers, to the man that took him, To question of his apprehension. Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably. 
Deliver what you will; I'll say 'tis so. Here comes your cousin.
 There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
With thy brave bearing should I be in love, But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
I am good friends with my father and may do any thing.
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns. Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand; The bruit thereof will bring you many friends.
Now, by my sword,
I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too, and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more: Worcester is stolen away tonight;  thy father's beard is turned white with the news: you may buy land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
Well, well: away !
This I must say, But first I beg my pardon, the young lord Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady Offence of mighty note; but to himself The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife Whose beauty did astonish the survey Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive, Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve Humbly call'd mistress.
By cock and pie, sir, you shall not away to-night. What, Davy, I say!
O no, his bodye will infect the fire, and the fire the aire, and so we shall be poysoned with him.
Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance, and made the night light with drinking.
Here's to thee, Menas!
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more; And throw between them all the food thou hast, They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony ?
Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
My thanks and duty are your majesty's.
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
I have told your lordship already the stocks carry him.   But to answer you as you would be understood; he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes to be a friar, from the time of his remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i' the stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
A good shallow young fellow: a' would have made a good pantler, a' would ha' chipped bread well.
Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye fat chuffs; I would your store were here! On, bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live. You are grand-jurors, are ye? we'll jure ye, 'faith. Exeunt.  Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS. 
My sovereign lord, cheer up yourself, look up.
Like a tench! by the mass, there is ne'er a king christen could be better bit than I have been since the first cock.
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford; Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth, But set his murdering knife unto the root From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring, I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
Take heed you fall not. Menas, I'll not on shore.
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack o' the contrary.   If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage.   I have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge, that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
To Lynn, my lord, And ship from thence to Flanders.
Cleopatra, Not what you have reserved, nor what acknowledged, Put we i' the roll of conquest: still be 't yours, Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe, Csar's no merchant, to make prize with you Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd; Make not your thoughts your prisons: no, dear queen; For we intend so to dispose you as Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed, and sleep: Our care and pity is so much upon you, That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
True, so I am.
The general of our horse thou art; and we, Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence Upon thy promising fortune.
Where wert thou born?
Unreverent Gloster!
Was Mahomet inspired with a dove? Thou with an eagle art inspired then, Helen, the mother of great Constantine, Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters were like thee. Bright star of Venus, fall'n down on the earth, How may I reverently worship thee enough?
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I could say she were worse: think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall see her chamberwindow entered, even the night before her wedding-day: if you love her then, to-morrow wed her; but it would better fit your honor to change your mind.
It may be so: if he have robb'd these men, He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
I charge thee send me  three hundred  300  by this bearer, and this shall be your warrant; if you doe not, no more but so.
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him, it shows to man the tailors of the earth; comforting therein, that when old robes are worn out, there are members to make new. If there were no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut, and the case to be lamented: this grief is crowned with consolation; your old smock brings forth a new petticoat: and indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow.
Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
Ay,and for an assault too.
How now, wool-sack! what mutter  you?
Then, England's messenger, return in post, And tell false Edward, thy supposed king, That Lewis of France is sending over masquers To revel it with him and his new bride: Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.
If I do, fillip me with a three-man beetle. A man can no more separate age and covetousness than a' can part young limbs and lechery: but the gout galls the one, and the pox pinches the other; and so both the degrees prevent my curses. Boy!
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart. To make a shambles of the parliament-house! Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats Shall be the war that Henry means to use. Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne, And kneel for grace and mercy at my feet; I am thy sovereign.
Lord regent, I do greet your excellence With letters of commission from the king. For know, my lords, the states of Christendom, Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils, Have earnestly implored a general peace Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French; And here at hand the Dauphin and his train Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
Thy mother's son! like enough, and thy father's shadow: so the son of the female is the shadow of the male: it is often so, indeed;  but much of the father's substance!
Heard he the good news yet? Tell it him.
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine That's able to breathe life into a stone, Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay, To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand And write to her a love-line.
Before we make election, give me leave To show some reason, of no little force, That York is most unmeet of any man.
Take to you no hard thoughts: The record of what injuries you did us, Though written in our flesh, we shall remember As things but done by chance.
A maid, they say.
I will, my liege.
All, all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the garden.
I' the city of kites and crows.
I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another, for they loved well when they were alive. Now part them again, lest they consult about the giving up of some more towns in France. Soldiers, defer the spoil of the city until night: for with these borne before us, instead of maces, will we ride through the streets; and at every corner have them kiss. Away!
Oh Mistris! I have the bravest, gravest, secret, subtil, bottle-nos'd knave to my Master, that ever Gentleman had.
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this; For many men that stumble at the threshold Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Go to; stand aside.
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
Brown, madam: and her forehead As low as she would wish it.
One word, sweet queen: Of Csar seek your honor, with your safety. O!
Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have made this treaty.You and I have known, sir.
He's very near the truth in this.

O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed! Had we done so at first, we had droven them home With clouts about their heads.
Hence, saucy eunuch; peace! She hath betray'd me and shall die the death.
the wind!
My mother's son, sir.
Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
Well conceited, Davy: about thy business, Davy.
We thank you, lords. But I am not your king Till I be crown'd and that my sword be stain'd With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster; And that's not suddenly to be perform'd, But with advice and silent secrecy. Do you as I do in these dangerous days: Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence, At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition, At Buckingham and all the crew of them, Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock, That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey: 'Tis that they seek, and they in seeking that Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.
Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete, Thou Icarus: thy life to me is sweet: If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side; And, commendable proved, let's die in pride.
I will not bandy with thee word for word, But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
For the women?
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
What sayest thou, Jack?
Here's a strange alteration!
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
Let me see them, I beseech you.
Bardolph!
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt prove a notable argument.
Here's the lord of the soil come to seize me for a stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave. Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand crowns of the king by carrying my head to him: but I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow my sword like a great pin, ere thou and I part.
No Sir, I can cut and shave.
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
The fiend hath pricked down Bardolph  irrevocable; and his face is Lucifer's privy-kitchen, where he doth nothing but roast malt-worms. For the boy, there is a good angel about him; but the devil outbids him too.
So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does: the danger is in standing to 't; that's the loss of men, though it be the getting of children.  Here they come will tell you more: for my part, I only hear your son was run away. Enter HELENA and two Gentlemen. 
Sweet aunt, be quiet; 'twas against her will.
The worthy fellow is our gen eral: he's a rock, the oak not to be wind-shaken.
He were the worse for that, were he a horse; So is he, being a man.
Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense. What love think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
Well, let them practise and converse with spirits: God is our fortress, in whose conquering name Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
That face of his the hungry cannibals Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood: But you are more inhuman, more inexorable, O, ten times more, than tigers of Hyrcania. See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears: This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy, And I with tears do wash the blood away. Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this: And if thou tell'st the heavy story right, Upon my soul, the hearers will shed tears; Yea, even my foes will shed fast-falling tears, And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!' There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse; And in thy need such comfort come to thee As now I reap at thy too cruel hand! Hard-hearted   Clifford, take me from the world: My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
Then thus: Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons: The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales; The second, William of Hatfield, and the third, Lionel Duke of Clarence; next to whom Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster; The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York; The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester; William of Windsor was the seventh and last. Edward the Black Prince died before his father And left behind him Richard, his only son, Who after Edward the Third's death reign'd as king; Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster, The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt, Crown'd by the name of Henry the Fourth, Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king, Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came, And him to Pomfret; where, as all you know, Harmless Richard was murder'd traitorously.
Why art thou not at Windsor with him, Thomas?
Be't so: declare thine office.
Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
This door is open; he is gone this way.
Now, my lord.
His is certain, ours is doubtful.
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
I did.
I cannot joy, until I be resolved Where our right valiant father is become. I saw him in the battle range about; And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth. Methought he bore him in the thickest troop As doth a lion in a herd of neat; Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs, Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry, The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him. So fared our father with his enemies; So fled his enemies my warlike father: Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son. See how the morning opes her golden gates, And takes her farewell of the glorious sun! How well remembers it the prime of youth, Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
Thy biddings have been done; and every hour, Most noble Csar, shalt thou have report How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea; And it appears he is beloved of those That only have fear'd Csar: to the ports The discontents repair, and men's reports Give him much wrong'd.
Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge, without any malice, but to speak of him as my kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner of no one good quality worthy your lordship's entertainment.
O base Assyrian knight, what is thy news? Let King Cophetua know the truth thereof.
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
Such as I am, I come from Antony: I was of late as petty to his ends As is the morn-dew on the myrtle-leaf To his grand sea.
At your pleasure, my good lord. Who's within there, ho! Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick To sup with me to-morrow night. Away! [Exeunt. 
Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience: give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at your pleasures; at the least, if you take it as a pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for being proud?
Here I am, thou particular fellow.
Villain, thy father was a plasterer; And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer: do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have deceived even your very eyes: what your wisdoms could not discover, these shallow fools have brought to light: who in the night overheard me confessing to this man how Don John your brother incensed me to slander the Lady Hero, how you were brought into the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero's garments, how you disgraced her, when you should marry her: my villany they have upon record; which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false accusation; and, briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a villain.
This match'd with other did, my gracious lord; For more uneven and unwelcome news Came from the north and thus it did import: On Holy-rood day, the gallant Hotspur there, Young Harry Percy and brave Archibald, That ever-valiant and approved Scot, At Holmedon met, Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour; As by discharge of their artillery, And shape of likelihood, the news was told; For he that brought them, in the very heat And pride of their contention did take horse, Uncertain of the issue any way.
Nor what I have done by water.
Tug him away: being whipp'd, Bring him again: this Jack of Csar's shall Bear us an errand to him. You were half blasted ere I knew you: ha! Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome, Forborne the getting of a lawful race, And by a gem of women, to be abused By one that looks on feeders ?
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's name; I have done.
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
My honor'd lady, I have forgiven and forgotten all; Though my revenges were high bent upon him, And watch'd the time to shoot.
But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
There is none: man, sitting down before you, will undermine you and blow you up.
Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates, To entertain my vows of thanks and praise! Soldiers, this day have you redeem'd your lives And show'd how well you love your prince and country: Continue still in this so good a mind, And Henry, though he be infortunate, Assure yourselves, will never be unkind: And so, with thanks and pardon to you all, I do dismiss you to your several countries.
For obtaining of suits?
Away, you scullion! you rampallian! you fustilarian! I'll tickle your catastrophe.
You men of Kent,--
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect The very life-blood of our enterprise; 'Tis catching hither, even to our camp. He writes me here, that inward sickness- And that his friends by deputation could not So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet To lay so dangerous and dear a trust On any soul removed but on his own. Yet doth he give us bold advertisement, That with our small conjunction we should on, To see how fortune is disposed to us; For, as he writes, there is no quailing now, Because the king is certainly possess'd Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
Yes, forsooth: I wish you joy o' the worm. Re-enter IRAS with a robe, crown, &c. 
That Somerset be sent as regent thither: 'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd; Witness the fortune he hath had in France,
I call thee coward! I'll see thee damned ere I call thee coward: but I would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as thou canst.   You are straight enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your back: call you that backing of your friends?   A plague upon such backing! give me them that will face me. Give me a cup of sack: I am a rogue, if I drunk to-day.
Nay, then, he is a conjurer.
That man should be at woman's command,  and yet no hurt done!   Though honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt; it will wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart. I am going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
A subtle knave! but yet it shall not serve. Let me see thine eyes: wink now: now open them: In my opinion yet thou see'st not well.
Sweet sir, sit; I'll be with you anon; most sweet sir, sit. Master page, good master page, sit. Proface!   What you want in meat, we'll have in drink: but you must bear; the heart's all.
Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by Don Pedro; he hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb, the feats of a lion: he hath indeed better bettered expectation than you must expect of me to tell you how.
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go to wars with the women!
Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
For this, I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more. Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd, Shall never find it more.
Her mother hath many times told me so.
Madam, myself have limed a bush for her, And placed a quire of such enticing birds, That she will light to listen to the lays, And never mount to trouble you again. So, let her rest: and, madam, list to me; For I am bold to counsel you in this. Although we fancy not the cardinal, Yet must we join with him and with the lords, Till we have brought Duke Humphrey in disgrace. As for the Duke of York, this late complaint Will make but little for his benefit. So, one by one, we'll weed them all at last, And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
Upon his many protestations to marry me when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won me. Now is the Count Rousillon a widower: his vows are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow him to his country for justice: grant it me, O king! in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer flourishes, and a poor maid is undone. DIANA CAPILET.
No, indeed, master.
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you charge it against me. I pray you choose another subject.
By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder  that hath shot out in our latter times.
It is best, certain.
I must be laugh'd at, If, or for nothing or a little, I Should say myself offended, and with you Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at, that I should Once name you derogately, when to sound your name It not concern'd me.
Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York: The next degree is England's royal throne; For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd In every borough as we pass along; And he that throws not up his cap for joy Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head. King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague, Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown, But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
Jesu, Jesu, dead! a' drew   a good bow; and dead! a' shot a fine shoot: John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on his head. Dead! a' would have clapped i' the clout at twelve score; and carried you a forehand shaft a fourteen and fourteen and a half, that it would have done a man's heart good to see. How a score of ewes now?
As't please your lordship; I'll leave you.
How shall we part with them in setting forth?
 As firmly as I hope for fertile England. Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud And caterpillars eat my leaves away; But I will remedy this gear ere long, Or sell my title for a glorious grave. Enter GLOUCESTER. 
No, Antony; My mistress loved thee, and her fortunes mingled With thine entirely.
Here is a rural fellow That will not be denied your highness' presence: He brings you figs.
Most sincerely.
A cup of wine that's brisk and fine, And drink unto the leman mine; And a merry heart lives long-a.
O, speak no more, for I have heard too much.
If I can close with him, I care not for his thrust.
Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan! I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
Gaultier or Walter, which it is, I care not: Never yet did base dishonour blur our name, But with our sword we wiped away the blot; Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge, Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defaced, And I proclaim'd a coward through the world!
For grief that they are past recovery: For, were there hope to conquer them again, My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears. Anjou and Maine! myself did win them both; Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer: And are the cities, that I got with wounds, Deliver'd up again with peaceful words? Mort Dieu!
If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a vice; and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best, Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
So, there goes our protector in a rage. 'Tis known to you he is mine enemy, Nay, more, an enemy unto you all, And no great friend, I fear me, to the king, Consider, lords, he is the next of blood, And heir apparent to the English crown: Had Henry got an empire by his marriage, And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west, There's reason he should be displeased at it. Look to it, lords; let not his smoothing words Bewitch your hearts; be wise and circumspect. What though the common people favour him, Calling him   'Humphrey, the good Duke of Gloucester,' Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice, 'Jesu maintain your royal excellence!' With 'God preserve the good Duke Humphrey!' I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss, He will be found a dangerous protector.
If he fall in, good night! or sink or swim: Send danger from the east unto the west, So honour cross it from the north to south, And let them grapple: O, the blood more stirs To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
Ah, let be, let be! thou art The armorer of my heart: false, false; this, this.
O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers and my young lady!
Stay: the king.
Come, Sir John, which four will you have?
Yea, marry, there's the point: But if without him we be thought too feeble, My judgement is, we should not step too far Till we had his assistance by the hand; For in a theme so bloody-faced as this Conjecture, expectation, and surmise Of aids incertain should not be admitted.
Spent!
Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction!  what says the almanac to that?
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
You must speak louder; my master is deaf.
Neighbors, you are tedious.
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside, Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey Should not become my wife and England's queen. And you too, Somerset and Montague, Speak freely what you think.
 I know not what to say: my title's weak.-- Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
Go to; homo is a common name to all men. Bid the ostler bring my gelding out of the stable.   Farewell, you muddy knave.
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
Approach, and speak.
Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
Pool! Sir Pool! lord! Ay, kennel, puddle, sink; whose filth and dirt Troubles the silver spring where England drinks. Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth For swallowing the treasure of the realm: Thy lips that kiss'd the queen shall sweep the ground; And thou that smiledst at good Duke Humphrey's death Against the senseless winds shall grin in vain, Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again: And wedded be thou to the hags of hell, For daring to affy a mighty lord Unto the daughter of a worthless king, Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem. By devilish policy art thou grown great And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorged With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart. By thee Anjou and Maine were sold to France, The false revolting Normans through thee Disdain to call us lord, and Picardy Hath slain their governors, surprised our forts And sent the ragged soldiers wounded home. The princely Warwick, and the Nevils all, Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain, As hating thee, are rising up in arms: And now the house of York, thrust from the crown By shameful murder of a guiltless king And lofty proud encroaching tyranny, Burns with revenging fire; whose hopeful colours Advance our half-faced sun, striving to shine, Under the which is writ 'Invitus nubibus.' The commons here in Kent are up in arms: And, to conclude, reproach and beggary Is crept into the palace of our king, And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some comfort; your son will not be killed so soon as I thought he would.
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone; Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
Csar and Lepidus Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
Then let's make haste away, and look unto the main. .
How now, my lady the hostess what sayest thou to me?
Take away his weapon.   Fellow, thank God, and the good wine in thy master's way.
What, four? thou saidst but two even now.
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it was never merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out, Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
If he were living, I would try him yet. Lend me an arm; the rest have worn me out With several applications: nature and sickness Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, count; My son's no dearer.
I begin to love him for this.
Come, Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain form of marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards.
Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
Keep them off, Bardolph.
Good day, my lord.
Well, let us go together.
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
O, I am ignorance itself in this!
Free, madam! no; I made no such report: He's bound unto Octavia.
Come, go; I will dispatch the horsemen straight: Within six hours they will be at his aid.
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
I shall entreat him To answer like himself: if Csar move him, Let Antony look over Csar's head And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter, Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard, I would not shave't to-day.
You cannot witness for me, being slain. If death be so apparent, then both fly.
Marry, and shall.
Madam, madam,
Sir?
I neither care for the world nor your general: for such things as you, I can scarce think there's any, ye're so slight. He that hath a will to die by himself fears it not from another: let your general do his worst. For you, be that you are, long; and your misery increase with your age! I say to you, as I was said to, Away!
Not wind? it shall, it must; you see it doth.
A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
Peter Bullcalf o' the green!
Half the heart of Csar, worthy Mecnas! My honorable friend, Agrippa !
At reading of the letter, he star'd and stamp'd, and var:#aside.] ~,#  var:#beard] sterd Q#  turnd aside  .  ,  I tooke him by the  beard  sterd  , and look'd upon him thus; var:#it;] ~,#  told him he were best to send it  ;  ,  then he hug'd and imbrac'd me.
A very feeling one; have not the Nuns fine sport with the Fryars now and then?
You start away And lend no ear unto my purposes. Those prisoners you shall keep.
That is intended in the general's name: I muse you make so slight a question.
He's no swaggerer, hostess; a tame cheater, i' faith; you may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound: he'll not swagger with a Barbary hen, if her feathers turn back in any show of resistance.  Call him  up, drawer.
A' must, then, to the inns o' court shortly. I was once of Clement's Inn, where I think they will talk of mad Shallow yet.
I'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise:' 'Certain,' said she,'a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning; there's a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she, an hour, together, transshape thy particular virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou wast the properest man in Italy.
A' bears the third part of the world, man; see'st not?
Good night, my noble lord.
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's remembrance, be at accord.
We'll be friends first.
O' God's name, see the lists and all things fit: Here let them end it; and God defend the right!
The army is discharged all and gone.
Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
Pistol, I would be quiet.
Where  was  wast Dd2-B (-D1)  thou borne?
Then we are like to have biting statutes, unless his teeth be pulled out.
I have it not.
Stand!
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might safely be admitted.
What, ho!
'Tis the more time thou wert used.
O, rare for Antony!
I can no longer brook thy vanities. Enter FALSTAFF. 
Nothing but this; 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
To make his followers weep.
If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down: Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
What, sir?
My gracious liege, You won it, wore it, kept it, gave it me; Then plain and right must my possession be: Which I with more than with a common pain 'Gainst all the world will rightfully maintain. 
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace, and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do my liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and seek not to alter me. 
That is to see how deep my grave is made; For with his soul fled all my worldly solace, For seeing him I see my life in death.
If I do not, damn me.
You have broken The article of your oath; which you shall never Have tongue to charge me with.
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
How if a' will not stand?
I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the fortune of us that are the moon's men doth ebb and flow like the sea, being governed, as the sea is, by the moon. As, for proof, now: a purse of gold most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with swearing Lay by and spent with crying Bring in; now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder  and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
Alexas did revolt; and went to Jewry on Affairs of Antony; there did persuade Great Herod to incline himself to Csar, And leave his master Antony: for this pains Csar hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest That fell away have entertainment, but No honorable trust. I have done ill; Of which I do accuse myself so sorely, That I will joy no more.
No more, my Lord.
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet! And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood, Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
I know not.
Long live King Henry! Plantagenet, embrace him.
Ay, Edward will use women honourably. Would he were wasted, marrow bones and all, That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring, To cross me from the golden time I look for! And yet, between my soul's desire and me-- The lustful Edward's title buried-- Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward, And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies, To take their rooms, ere I can place myself: A cold premeditation for my purpose! Why, then, I do but dream on sovereignty; Like one that stands upon a promontory, And spies a far-off shore where he would tread, Wishing his foot were equal with his eye, And chides the sea that sunders him from thence, Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way: So do I wish the crown, being so far off; And so I chide the means that keeps me from it; And so I say, I'll cut the causes off, Flattering me with impossibilities. My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much, Unless my hand and strength could equal them. Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard; What other pleasure can the world afford? I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap, And deck my body in gay ornaments, And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks. O miserable thought! and more unlikely Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns! Why, love forswore me in my mother's womb: And, for I should not deal in her soft laws, She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe, To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub; To make an envious mountain on my back, Where sits deformity to mock my body; To shape my legs of an unequal size; To disproportion me in every part, Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp That carries no impression like the dam. And am I then a man to be beloved? O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought! Then, since this earth affords no joy to me, But to command, to check, to o'erbear such As are of better person than myself, I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown, And, whiles I live, to account this world but hell, Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head Be round impaled with a glorious crown. And yet I know not how to get the crown, For many lives stand between me and home: And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood, That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns, Seeking a way and straying from the way; Not knowing how to find the open air, But toiling desperately to find it out,-- Torment myself to catch the English crown: And from that torment I will free myself, Or hew my way out with a bloody axe. Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile, And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart, And wet my cheeks with artificial tears, And frame my face to all occasions. I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall; I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk; I'll play the orator as well as Nestor, Deceive more slily than Ulysses could, And, like a Simon, take another Troy. I can add colours to the chameleon, Change shapes with Proteus for advantages, And set the murderous Machiavel to school. Can I do this, and cannot get a crown? Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.
Marry, my lord, Altha dreamed she was delivered of a fire-brand; and therefore I call him her dream.
No abuse, Ned, i' the world; honest Ned, none. I dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall in love with him; in which doing, I have done the part of a careful friend and a true subject, and thy father is to give me thanks for it. No abuse, Hal: none, Ned, none: no, faith, boys, none.
I smell it: upon my life, it will do well.
Yea, marry, let's see Bullcalf.
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
For prisoners ask'st thou? hell our prison is. But tell me whom thou seek'st.
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
How now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio one!
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a strange guest he has here.
Tell him you will confesse.
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Like enough you do. To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury, As I am truly given to understand, The king with mighty and quick-raised power Meets with Lord Harry: and I fear, Sir Michael. What with the sickness of Northumberland, Whose power was in the first proportion, And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence, Who with them was a rated sinew too And comes not in, o'er-ruled by prophecies, I fear the power of Percy is too weak To wage an instant trial with the king.
I wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art, born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and claw no man in his humor. 
You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had been truth, sir.
To be whipped! What's his fault?
What didst thou lose, Jack?
Uncle of Winchester, I pray, read on.
Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
Who I, master? Why I'le run to some  rocke  huge rock  and throw my selfe headlong into the sea; why I'le doe any thing for your sweet sake.
Ah, know you not the city favours them, And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
Yonder comes my master, your brother.
Come, let them be opinioned.
Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor 'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should be so.
Hear me, Beatrice,
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel: and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report of him.
Madam, I had rather seal my lips, than, to my peril, Speak that which is not.
Recantation!   My lord! my master!
Where hast been, Hal?
He lies, for I invented it myself. Go to, sirrah, tell the king from me, that, for his father's sake, Henry the Fifth, in whose time boys went to span-counter for French crowns, I am content he shall reign; but I'll be protector over him.
Here, sir.
Yes, master, clear as day, I thank God and Saint Alban.
Why think you so?
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand, Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
'Tis better using France than trusting France: Let us be back'd with God and with the seas Which He hath given for fence impregnable, And with their helps only defend ourselves; In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody succeeding.   My master!
Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I am loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart; for, truly, I love none.
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor doing eternal: for doing I am past; as I will by thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
To Csar will I render My legions and my horse: six kings already Show me the way of yielding.
The reason?
Come you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance: nay, an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
You do extend These thoughts of horror further than you shall Find cause in Csar.
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch; Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth; Between two blades, which bears the better temper: Between two horses, which doth bear him best; Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye; I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgement; But in these nice sharp quillets of the law, Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
No, Governour, I will be no convertite.
Shadow, whose son art thou?
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.
How now! interjections?   Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha, he!
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
Well, my good lord; and as the only means To stop effusion of our Christian blood And stablish quietness on every side.
Come, you virtuous ass, you bashful fool, must you be blushing? wherefore blush you now? What a maidenly man-at-arms are you become! Is 't such a matter to get a pottle-pot's maidenhead?
Then throw him into the ditch.
Their preparation is to-day by sea; We please them not by land.
Banished, sir.
Hark!
I never thought to hear you speak again.
When first this order was ordain'd, my lords, Knights of the garter were of noble birth, Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage, Such as were grown to credit by the wars; Not fearing death, nor shrinking for distress, But always resolute in most extremes. He then that is not furnish'd in this sort Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight, Profaning this most honourable order, And should, if I were worthy to be judge, Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
Ay, noble lord.
Thou bleed'st apace.
I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.
Believe me, I am passing light in spirit.
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard my daughter tell you how.
brows.
Ha! not for the wide world.
Under which king, Besonian? speak, or die.
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh, And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st Except it be to pray against thy foes.
I know you are the Muskos' regiment: And I shall lose my life for want of language: If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch, Italian, or French, let him speak to me; I'll Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
I deny your major: if you will deny the sheriff, so; if not, let him enter: if I become  not a cart as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up!   I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.
Have you your wits? know you what 'tis you speak?
Conrade, I say!
I have a whole school of tongues in this belly of mine, and not a tongue of them all speaks any other word but my name. An I had but a belly of any indifference, I were simply the most active fellow in Europe: my womb, my womb, my womb, undoes me. Here comes our general.
You shall not find, Though you be therein curious, the least cause For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you, And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends ! We will here part.
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head; For York in justice puts his armour on.
No Sir; and therefore I must have  five hundred  500  more.
Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare: but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the roaring of the lion's whelp.
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid, Spare for no faggots, let there be enow: Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake, That so her torture may be shortened.
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgement, Which being shallow, you shall give me leave To play the broker in mine own behalf; And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
Approach, ho! All's not well: Csar's beguiled.
What, worse than nought?   nay, then, a shame take all!
My lord protector, so it please your grace, Here are the articles of contracted peace Between our sovereign and the French king Charles, For eighteen months concluded by consent.
 mind. Dread lord, the commons send your word by me, Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death, Or banished fair England's territories, They will by violence tear him   from your palace And torture him with grievous lingering death. They say, by him the good Duke Humphrey died; They say, in him   they fear your highness' death; And mere instinct of love and loyalty, Free from a stubborn opposite intent, As being thought to contradict your liking, Makes them thus forward in his banishment. They say, in care of your most royal person, That if your highness should intend to sleep And charge that no man should disturb your rest In pain of your dislike or pain of death, Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict, Were there a serpent seen, with forked tongue, That slily glided towards your majesty, It were but necessary you were waked, Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber, The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal; And therefore do they cry, though you forbid, That they will guard you, whether you will or no, From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is, With whose envenomed and fatal sting, Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth, They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
A voustre commandemente Madam.
Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
Ay, we may march in England or in France, Not seeing what is likely to ensue. This late dissension grown betwixt the peers Burns under feigned ashes of forged love And will at last break out into a flame: As fester'd members rot but by degree, Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away, So will this base and envious discord breed. And now I fear that fatal prophecy Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth Was in the mouth of every sucking babe; That Henry born at Monmouth should win all And Henry born at Windsor lose all: Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish His days may finish ere that hapless time.
Which be the malefactors?
And he that will not fight for such a hope, Go home to bed, and like the owl by day, If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
Why stay we now?   These soldiers shall be levied, And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral, Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet. I long till Edward fall by war's mischance, For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
Herein your highness wrongs both them and me. But, mighty lord, this merry inclination Accords not with the sadness of my suit: Please you dismiss me, either with 'ay' or 'no.'
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made, and the garland too; for the garland he might have worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest.
Who shall say me nay?
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand: Through Alexandria make a jolly march; Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them: Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup together, And drink carouses to the next day's fate, Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters, With brazen din blast you the city's ear; Make mingle with our rattling tabourines; That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together, Applauding our approach.
We will yet do well.
This will I show the general. Please you, lords, In sight of both our battles we may meet; And either end in peace, which God so frame! Or to the place of difference call the swords Which must decide it.
There is a thing within my bosom tells me That no conditions of our peace can stand.
Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
At a word, I am not.
Not sad, my lord.
It shall serve among wits of no higher breeding than thine.
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition.
Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
That my master was? no, forsooth: my master said that he was, and that the king was an usurper.
All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
No better, if you please.
Art thou so confident? within what space Hopest thou my cure?
What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching hence.
I shall report it so.
Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity, For wise men say it is the wisest course.
No; thou shalt.
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself? Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk, Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance; And in the very pangs of death he cried, Like to a dismal clangor heard from far, 'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!' So, underneath the belly of their steeds, That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood, The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
I have.
Well, I shall be wiser.
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow: if I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
God save you, noble captain.
Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me: Impatiently I burn with thy desire; My heart and hands thou hast at once subdued. Excellent Pucelle, if thy name be so, Let me thy servant and not sovereign be; 'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
My name, my good lord; is Parolles.
Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it smell so strongly as thou speakest of: I will henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering. Prithee, allow the wind.
What! am I dared and bearded to my face? Draw, men, for all this privileged place; Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard; I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly: Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal's hat: In spite of pope or dignities of church, Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
Come, then; for with a wound I must be cured. Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn Most useful for thy country.
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
Here come two of Sir John Falstaff's men, as I think.
O my Parolles, they have married me! I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him out by that?
Fie, wrangling queen! Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh, To weep; whose every passion fully strives To make itself, in thee, fair and admired! No messenger, but thine; and all alone To-night we'll wander through the streets and note The qualities of people. Come, my queen; Last night you did desire it: speak not to us.
These things indeed you have articulate, Proclaim'd at market-crosses, read in churches, To face the garment of rebellion With some fine colour that may please the eye Of fickle changelings and poor discontents, Which gape and rub the elbow at the news Of hurlyburly innovation: And never yet did insurrection want Such water-colours to impaint his cause; Nor moody beggars, starving for a time Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
This is all.
A better than thou: I am a gentleman;  thou art a drawer.
The moon shines fair; you may away by night: I'll haste the writer and withal Break with your wives of your departure hence: I am afraid my daughter will run mad, So much she doteth on her Mortimer.
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor and bare, too beggarly.
Even he.
O Lord, sir!   There's a simple putting off. More, more, a hundred of them.
I pray thee, loving wife, and gentle daughter, Give even way unto my rough affairs: Put not you on the visage of the times And be like them to Percy troublesome.
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
Now Antony must leave her utterly.
Stand close; I hear them coming.
How doth your grace affect their motion?
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore the sadness is without limit.
There is my pledge; accept it, Somerset.
Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course of all treasons, we still see them reveal themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends, so he that in this action contrives against his own nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
What's the matter?
These news, my lords, may cheer our drooping spirits: 'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt And turn again unto the warlike French.
A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
Your ships already are in readiness.
If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack Cade more: I think he hath a very fair warning.
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
My lord, do you see these meteors? do you behold these exhalations?
Speak, Agrippa.
'Tis our hope, sir, After well enter'd soldiers, to return And find your grace in health.
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
Welcome, Lord Somerset.   What news from France?
No; but  three hundred  300  will not serve his turne.
This I'll do for you.
Well excused: That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away From the great compt: but love that comes too late, Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried, To the great sender turns a sour offence, Crying, 'That's good that's gone.'   Our rash faults Make trivial price of serious things we have, Not knowing them until we know their grave: Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust, Destroy our friends and after weep their dust: Our own love waking cries to see what 's done, While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon. Be this sweet Helen's knell, and now forget her. Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin: The main consents are had; and here we'll stay To see our widower's second marriage-day.
This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes off and on at pleasure.
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
It might have been recovered.
What's your will?
Mine, and most of our fortunes, to night, shall bedrunk to bed.
But to stand stained with travel, and sweating with desire to see him; thinking of nothing else, putting all affairs else in oblivion,  as if there were nothing else to be done but to see him.
Marry, that am I and my partner.
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such intelligence hath seldom failed.
My lord protector, 'tis his highness' pleasure You do prepare to ride unto Saint Alban's, Where as the king and queen do mean to hawk.
I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses; For pale they look with fear, as witnessing The truth on our side.
Suffolk, what remedy? I am a soldier and unapt to weep Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
Here, an't please you.
Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb. You two are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
This is the end of the charge:you, constable, are to present the prince's own person: if you meet the prince in the night, you may stay him.
What, none?
Nay, answer, if you can: the Frenchmen are our enemies; go to, then, I ask but this: can he that speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good counsellor, or no?
Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do you serve God?
He had so; looking as it were would I were hanged, but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled: I hope all's for the best.
Why, because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to Falstaff.
Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
Not a whit.
In Sicyon: Her length of sickness, with what else more serious Importeth thee to know, this bears.
And his well-chosen bride.
A drum now of the enemy's,--
News, my good lord, from Rome.
Why under Mars?
I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank you.
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee; His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
Nay, I will; that's flat: He said he would not ransom Mortimer; Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer; But I will find him when he lies asleep, And in his ear I'll holla 'Mortimer!' Nay, I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him, To keep his anger still in motion.
A color that I fear you will die in, Sir John.
Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius, always factionary on the party of your general.
How  ,   a Christian? Hum, what's here to 
doe? 
Mark Antony!
Anon, anon, sir.
Thy humble servant vows obedience And humble service till the point of death.
marble.
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick In such a justling time?   Who leads his power? Under whose government come they along?
Francis!
No abuse, Hal, o' mine honor; no abuse.
York, I commend this kind submission: We twain will go into his highness' tent.
Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away Sundays. Look; Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
Lives he ? Wilt thou not answer, man ?
No more of that: he did so.
Peace! she sings.
Show us the way, sir.
And so 'tis.
When he was predominant.
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy; mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
A rescue! a rescue!
You are too indulgent. Let us grant, it is not Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy; To give a kingdom for a mirth; to sit And keep the turn of tippling with a slave; To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet With knaves that smell of sweat: say this becomes him, As his composure must be rare indeed Whom these things cannot blemish,yet must Antony No way excuse his soils, when we do bear So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd His vacancy with his voluptuousness, Full surfeits, and the dryness of his bones, Call on him for't: but to confound such time, That drums him from his sport, and speaks as loud As his own state and ours,'tis to be chid As we rate boys, who, being mature in knowledge, Pawn their experience to their present pleasure, And so rebel to judgment.
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks, Because this is in traffic of a king. And yet, methinks, I could be well content To be mine own attorney in this case. I'll over then to England with this news, And make this marriage to be solemnized. So farewell, Reignier: set this diamond safe In golden palaces, as it becomes.
An if the devil come and roar for them, I will not send them: I will after straight And tell him so; for I will ease my heart, Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up that I can write my name.
No more words: the clerk is answered.
Winchester goose, I cry, a rope! a rope! Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay? Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array. Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
Do you know this Captain Dumain?
Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
Glasses, glasses is the only drinking: and for thy walls, a pretty slight drollery, or the story of the Prodigal, or the German hunting in water-work, is worth a thousand of these bed-hangings and these fly-bitten tapestries. Let it be ten pound, if thou canst. Come, an 'twere not for thy humors, there's not a better wench in England. Go, wash thy face, and draw the action. Come, thou must not be in this humor with me; dost not know me? come, come, I know thou wast set on to this.
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash. Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch. What, madam, are you there? the king and commonweal Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains: My lord protector will, I doubt it not, See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son, Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit. But be it as it may: I here entail The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever; Conditionally, that here thou take an oath To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live, To honour me as thy king and sovereign, And neither by treason nor hostility To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
But when the duke is slain, they'll quickly fly.
They please us well.   Lord marquess, kneel down: We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk, And gird thee with the sword.   Cousin of York, We here discharge your grace from being regent I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months Be full expired. Thanks, uncle Winchester, Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset, Salisbury, and Warwick; We thank you all for this great favour done, In entertainment to my princely queen. Come, let us in, and with all speed provide To see her coronation be perform'd. 
Is't so?   Why, then, say an old man can do somewhat.
Did I, Bardolph?
Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
How long hast thou been blind?
O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was o'erthrown. The circumstance I'll tell you more at large. The tenth of August last this dreadful lord, Retiring from the siege of Orleans, Having full scarce six thousand in his troop, By three and twenty thousand of the French Was round encompassed and set upon. No leisure had he to enrank his men; He wanted pikes to set before his archers; Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck'd out of hedges They pitched in the ground confusedly, To keep the horsemen off from breaking in. More than three hours had the fight continued; Where valiant Talbot above human thought Enacted wonders with his sword and lance: Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him; Here, there, and everywhere, enraged he flew: The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms; All the whole army stood agazed on him: His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit A Talbot! a Talbot! cried out amain And rush'd into the bowels of the battle. Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up, If Sir John Fastolfe had not play'd the coward: He, being in the vaward, placed behind With purpose to relieve and follow them, Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke. Hence grew the general wreck and massacre; Enclosed were they with their enemies: A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace, Thrust Talbot with a spear in the back, Whom all France with their chief assembled strength Durst not presume to look once in the face.
How now! what news?
Is all our travail turn'd to this effect? After the slaughter of so many peers, So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers, That in this quarrel have been overthrown And sold their bodies for their country's benefit, Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace? Have we not lost most part of all the towns, By treason, falsehood and by treachery, Our great progenitors had conquered? O, Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief The utter loss of all the realm of France.
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
It must and shall be so: content thyself.
An if I wist he did,--but let it rest; Other affairs must now be managed.
My name is Proculeius.
Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull. Shall we steal upon them, Ned, at supper?
This ring was mine; I gave it his first wife.
For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen; For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes.
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt, Whose father bears the title of a king,-- As if a channel should be call'd the sea,-- Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught, To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
There's Dolabella sent from Csar; call him.
Depose me? if thou dost it half so gravely, so majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by the heels for a rabbitsucker  or a poulter's hare.
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
'Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
I pledge your grace; and, if you knew what pains I have bestow'd to breed this present peace, You would drink freely: but my love to ye Shall show itself more openly hereafter.
Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
Sweet princes, what I did, I did in honor, Led by the impartial conduct of my soul: And never shall you see that I will beg A ragged and forestall'd remission. If truth and upright innocency fail me, I'll to the king my master that is dead, And tell him who hath sent me after him.
Tell me wherein have I offended most? Have I affected wealth or honour? speak. Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold? Is my apparel sumptuous to behold? Whom have I injured, that ye seek my death? These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding, This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts. O, let me live!
My Lord of Warwick, hear me but one word: Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
Why, as you, my lord, An't like your lordly lord-protectorship.
Some six months since, my lord.
Humphrey, my son of Gloucester, Where is the prince your brother?
That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see his company anatomized, that he might take a measure of his his own judgements, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.
I praise God for you.
Why should he not?
Beshrew me, but his passion moves me so That hardly can I check my eyes from tears.
The April 's in her eyes: it is love's spring, And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
I shall, my liege.
He shall be welcome too. Where is his son, The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales, And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside, And bid it pass?
Who ! One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus, He shall not hear thee; or from Csar's camp Say 'I am none of thine.'
So I say.
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
I am thine.
What fellow's that?
The leaders, having charge from you to stand, Will not go off until they hear you speak.
An you do not make him hanged among you, the gallows shall have wrong.
I have been sometimes there.
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
He said, sir, the water itself was a good healthy water; but, for the party that owed it, he might have more diseases than he knew for.
Alencon! that notorious Machiavel! It dies, an if it had a thousand lives.
Antony, Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once Wast beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel Did famine follow; whom   thou fought'st against, Though daintily brought up, with patience more Than savages could suffer: thou didst drink The stale of horses, and the gilded puddle Which beasts would cough at: thy palate then did deign The roughest berry on the rudest hedge; Yea, like the stag, when snow the pasture sheets, The barks of trees thou browsed'st; on the Alps It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh, Which some did die to look on: and all this- It wounds thine honor that I speak it now Was borne so like a soldier, that thy cheek So much as lank'd not.
Lords, take your places; and, I pray you all, Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester Than from true evidence of good esteem He be approved in practice culpable.
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords; And be you silent and attentive too, For he that interrupts him shall not live.
No, I think thou art not; I think thou art quit for that. Marry, there is another indictment  upon thee, for suffering flesh to be eaten in thy house, contrary to the law; for the which I think thou wilt howl.
How appears the fight ?
Farewell, my lord.
I have offended reputation, A most unnoble swerving.
Tut, when struck'st thou one blow in the field?
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the rarity redeems him.
My lord, I was born about three of the clock in the afternoon, with a white head and something a round belly. For my voice, I have lost it with halloing and singing of anthems. To approve my youth further, I will not: the truth is, I am only old in judgement and understanding; and he that will caper with me for a thousand marks, let him lend me the money, and have at him!  For the box of the ear that the prince gave you, he gave it like a rude prince, and you took it like a sensible lord. I have checked him for it, and the young lion repents; marry, not in ashes and sack- cloth,  but in new silk and old sack.
I am, my lord, but as my betters are That led me hither: had they been ruled by me, You should have won them dearer than you have.
Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud; And after summer evermore succeeds Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold: So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet. Sirs, what's o'clock?
Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou behavest thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own slaughter-house: therefore thus will I reward thee, the Lent shall be as long again as it is; and thou shalt have a license to kill for a hundred lacking one.
Why, Warwick, who should do the duke to death? Myself and Beaufort had him in protection; And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man.
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you.
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick, or angry?
 the east side of the grove?
My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits, Even in the chair of state: belike he means, Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer, To aspire unto the crown and reign as king. Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father, And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
I will disparage her no farther till you are my witness: bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
I would thou wert a man's tailor, that  thou mightst mend him and make him fit to  go. I cannot put him to a private soldier that is the leader of so many thousands: let that  suffice, most forcible Feeble.
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is in the stealer.
Here a' comes, methinks, and the queen with him. I'll be the first, sure.
I was anointed king at nine months old; My father and my grandfather were kings, And you were sworn true subjects unto me: And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
I muse my Lord of Gloucester is not come: 'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man, Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
You must not think I am so simple but I know the devil himself will not eat a woman: I know that a woman is a dish for the gods, if the devil dress her not. But, truly, these same whoreson devils do the gods great harm in their women; for in every ten that they make, the devils mar five.
Now will I lead you to the house, and show you The lass I spoke of.
I am content: provide me soldiers, lords, Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
They seek revenge and therefore will not yield.
And is old Double dead? 
Well, is the captain in the duke of Florence's camp?
Part of thy father may be saved in thee.
Why, Warwick canst thou speak against thy liege, Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years, And not betray thy treason with a blush?
His love.
She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
What is the gross sum that I owe thee?
I 'll be no longer guilty of this sin; this sanguine coward, this bed-presser, this horseback-breaker, this huge hill of flesh,
I thank you all: drink, and pray for me, I pray you; for I think I have taken my last draught in this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give thee my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer: and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O Lord bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to deal with my master, he hath learnt so much fence already.
My high-repented blames, Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
Good, an God will!
Is our whole dissembly appeared?
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley, Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither, Into this chiefest thicket of the park. Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother, Is prisoner to the bishop here, at whose hands He hath good usage and great liberty, And, often but attended with weak guard, Comes hunting this way to disport himself. I have advertised him by secret means That if about this hour he make this way Under the colour of his usual game. He shall here find his friends with horse and men To set him free from his captivity.
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
What thing! why, a thing to thank God on.
Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be! Lord cardinal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss, Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope. He dies, and makes no sign. O God, forgive him!
What say'st thou ?
Why, sir, did I say you were an honest man? setting my knighthood and my soldiership aside, I had lied in my throat, if I had said so.
I am not a day of season, For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail In me at once: but to the brightest beams Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth; The time is fair again.
Dost thou hear, Hal? never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit: thou art essentially mad, without seeming so.
What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent, And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you; Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths? Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon, Fling up his cap, and say 'God save his majesty ' Who hateth him and honours not his father, Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake, Shake his weapon at us and pass by.
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch. [Glou. and Clar. retire. 
What! you are as a candle, the better part burnt out.
Falstaff!Fast asleep behind the arras, and snorting like a horse.
Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner. O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly! For I will touch thee but with reverent hands; I kiss these fingers for eternal peace, And lay them gently on thy tender side. Who art thou? say, that I may honour thee.
Here is two more called than your number; you must have but four here, sir: and so, I pray you, go in with me to dinner.
Duke of Alencon, this was your default, That, being captain of the watch to-night, Did look no better to that weighty charge.
Ay, my lord,
Why, how couldst thou know these mnen in Kendal green, when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy hand? come, tell us your reason: what sayest thou to this?
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
Gifts that God gives.
What mean'st thou, Suffolk; tell me, what are these?
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
Yes, gracious madam.
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
Good or bad?
Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you, Not fearing the displeasure of your master, Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off, By him and by this woman here what know you?
Patience, good lady; wizards know their times: Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night, The time of night when Troy was set on fire; The time when screech-owls cry and bandogs howl And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves, That time best fits the work we have in hand. Madam, sit you and fear not: whom we raise, We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
What? what?
Yes, something you can deny for your own safety: you have been a great thief by sea.
Faith, Sir John, 'tis more than time that I were there, and you too; but my powers are there already. The king, I can tell you, looks for us all: we must away all night.
Ay, madam; And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should; Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?' Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
You will never run mad, niece.
Rome shall remedy this.
Cleopatra, know, We will extenuate rather than enforce: If you apply yourself to our intents, Which towards you are most gentle, you shall find A benefit in this change; but if you seek To lay on me a cruelty, by taking Antony's course, you shall bereave yourself Of my good purposes, and put your children To that destruction which I'll guard them from, If thereon you rely. I'll take my leave.
Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to your master that I am yet come to town: there's for your silence.
The Duke of Lancaster and Westmoreland; Against the Welsh, himself and Harry Monmouth: But who is substituted 'gainst the French, I have no certain notice.
Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye, While I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't. This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen, I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood Necessitied to help, that by ths token I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave her Of what should stead her most?
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether of his council.
Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo! Marcius coming home!
To heave the traitor Somerset from hence, And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade, Who since I heard to be discomfited.
The just proportion that we gave them out. Let us sway on and face them in the field. 
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
And though we here fall down, We have supplies to second our attempt: If they miscarry, theirs shall second them; And so success of mischief shall be born And heir from heir shall hold this quarrel up Whiles England shall have generation.
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
Peter, forsooth.
Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing But what indeed is honest to be done: Yet have I fierce affections, and think What Venus did with Mars.
Let me be blessed for the peace I make, Against this proud protector, with my sword!
Welcome, dear madam. Each heart in Rome does love and pity you: Only the adulterous Antony, most large In his abominations, turns you off; And gives his potent regiment to a trull, That noises it against us.
'Tis so, indeed.
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman; for I cannot see how sleeping should offend: only, have a care that your bills be not stolen. Well, you are to call at all the ale-houses, and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
Yea, this man's brow, like to a titleleaf, Foretells the nature of a tragic volume: So looks the strand whereon the imperious flood Hath left a witness'd usurpation. Say, Morton, didst thou come from Shrewsbury?
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith, truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine; it is all filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest woman with picking  thy pocket! why, thou whoreson, impudent , embossed rascal, if there were anything in thy pocket but tavern-reckonings, memorandums of bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of sugar-candy to make thee long-winded, if thy pocket were enriched with any other injuries but these, I am a villain: and yet you will stand to it; you will not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?
And how accompanied?
Marry, for that she's in wrong belief, I go to certify her Talbot's here.
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
We two saw you four set on four and bound them, and were masters of their wealth. Mark now, how a plain tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you four; and, with a word, out-faced you from your prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here in the house: and, Falstaff, you carried your guts away as nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roared for mercy and still run and roared, as ever I heard bull-calf.   What a slave art thou, to hack thy sword as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!   What trick, what device, what starting-hole, canst thou now find out to hide thee from this open and apparent shame?
Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting upon London-stone, I charge and command that, of the city's cost, the pissing-conduit run nothing but claret wine this first year of our reign. And now henceforward it shall be treason for any that calls me other than Lord Mortimer.
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure. Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee: Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
Suffer love! a good epithet! I do suffer love indeed, for I love thee against my will.
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to your answer? this learned constable is too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I know my business is but to the court.
It is too late; I cannot send them now: This expedition was by York and Talbot Too rashly plotted: all our general force Might with a sally of the very town Be buckled with: the over-daring Talbot Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure: York set him on to fight and die in shame, That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of them no longer than yesterday: a very honest woman, but something given to lie; as a woman should not do, but in the way of honesty: how she died of the biting of it, what pain she felt: truly, she makes a very good report o' the worm; but he that will believe all that they say, shall never be saved by half that they do: but this is most fallible, the worm's an odd worm.
I warrant you, as common as the way between Saint Alban's and London.
No more of him; for I will deal with him That henceforth he shall trouble us no more. And so break off; the day is almost spent: Lord Suffolk, you and I must talk of that event.
My captain, sir, commends him   to you; my captain, Sir John Falstaff, a tall gentleman, by heaven, and a most gallant leader.
Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
What, is it a time to jest and dally now? Exit. 
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons, Thy kinsmen and thy friends, I'll have more lives Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute; I mean to take possession of my right.
Some wicked trick or other. It may be under colour    of  Of   shaving, thou'lt cut my throat for my goods. Tell me, hast thou thy health well?
Shall I say to Csar What you require of him ? for he partly begs To be desired to give. It much would please him, That of his fortunes you should make a staff To lean upon: but it would warm his spirits, To hear from me you had left Antony, And put yourself under his shrowd, The universal landlord.
Where is the crown? who took it from my pillow?
When we withdrew, my liege, we left it here.
I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not: 'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak. But in this troublous time what's to be done? Shall we go throw away our coats of steel, And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns, Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads? Or shall we on the helmets of our foes Tell our devotion with revengeful arms? If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner: And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this: What is the body when the head is off?
Favors, by Jove that thunders! What art thou, fellow?
O, this boy Lends mettle to us all! Enter DOUGLAS. 
And so will I.
Labienus This is stiff news- hath, with his Parthian force, Extended Asia from Euphrates; His conquering banner shook from Syria To Lydia and to Ionia; Whilst
And is't not possible to find it out?
I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock, Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry, Till honour be bought up and no sword worn But one to dance with!   By heaven, I'll steal away.
No, here it is. Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur, For by that name as oft as Lancaster Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.
I prithee, Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleed'st too much. Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
What are you?
I will hold friends with you, lady.
Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye. Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the heir-apparent? should I turn upon the true prince? why, thou knowest  I am as valiant as Hercules: but beware instinct; the lion will not touch the true prince. Instinct is a great matter; I was now a coward on instinct. I shall think the better of myself and thee during my life; I for a valiant lion, and thou for a true prince But, by the Lord, lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap to the doors: watch to-night, pray to-morrow. Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, all the titles Qf good fellowship come to you I What, shall we be merry? shall we have a play extempore?
I well allow the occasion of our arms; But gladly would be better satisfied How in our means we should advance ourselves To look with forehead bold and big enough Upon the power and puissance of the king.
That ever I should call thee castaway !
I'll tell you in your ear.
Before God, I am exceeding weary.
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant thee. Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the gentlemen: they will along with company, for they have great charge. 
O God! they did me too much injury That ever said I hearken'd for your death. If it were so, I might have let alone The insulting hand of Douglas over you, Which would have been as speedy in your end As all the poisonous potions in the world And saved the treacherous labour of your son.
My royal father, cheer these noble lords And hearten those that fight in your defence: Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you; And, after, meet you sooner than you would.
Well, an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee, now shalt thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to make my eyes look red, that it may be thought I have wept; for I must speak in passion, and I will do it in King Cambyses' vein.
If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped on the shoulder, and called Adam.
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
What, is the king but five and twenty thousand?
My lord, it were your duty to forbear.
No, Lepidus, let him speak: The honor is sacred which he talks on now, Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Csar; The article of my oath.
I know you can do very little alone; for your helps are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous single: your abilities are too infant-like for doing much alone. You talk of pride: O that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! O that you could!
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse: The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fear So strongly that they dare not meet each other; Each takes his fellow for an officer. Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death, And lards the lean earth as he walks along: Weren't not for laughing, I should pity him.
What I have done my safety urged me to; And I embrace this fortune patiently, Since not to be avoided it falls on me.
What counsel, lords?   Edward from Belgia, With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders, Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas, And with his troops doth march amain to London; And many giddy people flock to him.
There is no remedy, sir, but you must die: the general says, you that have so traitorously discovered the secrets of your army and made such pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can serve the world for no honest use; therefore you must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
Anon, anon.
A wassail candle, my lord, all tallow: if I did say of wax, my growth would approve the truth.
She's beautiful and therefore to be woo'd; She is a woman, therefore to be won.
Presumptuous priest! this place commands my patience, Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me. Think not, although in writing I preferr'd The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes, That therefore I have forged, or am not able Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen: No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness, Thy lewd, pestiferous and dissentious pranks, As very infants prattle of thy pride. Thou art a most pernicious usurer, Froward by nature, enemy to peace; Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems A man of thy profession and degree; And for thy treachery, what's more manifest? In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life, As well at London bridge as at the Tower. Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted, The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane; Ned Poins and I will walk lower: if they 'scape from your encounter, then they light on us.
It is in my scabbard: shall I draw it?
His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
Where's Cotus? my master calls for him. Cotus! Enter CORIOLANUS. 
No; for he could not so resign his crown But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
Agen, sweet youth; did not you, Sir, bring the sweet youth a letter?
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's   will; 'tis   strongly wedged up in a block-head, but if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
O God! that one might read the book of fate, And see the revolution of the times Make mountains level, and the continent, Weary of solid firmness, melt itself Into the sea! and, other times, to see The beachy girdle of the ocean Too wide for Neptune's hips; how chances mock, And changes fill the cup of alteration With divers liqours! O, if this were seen, The happiest youth, viewing his progress through, What perils past, what crosses to ensue, Would shut the book, and sit him down and die. 'Tis not ten years gone Since Richard and Northumberland, great friends, Did feast together, and in two years after Were they at wars: it is but eight years since This Percy was the man nearest my soul, Who like a brother toil'd in my affairs And laid his love and life under my foot, Yea, for my sake, even to the eyes of Richard Gave him defiance. But which of you was by-- You, cousin Nevil, as I may remember-- When Richard, with his eye brimful of tears, Then check'd and rated by Northumberland, Did speak these words, now proved a prophecy? 'Northumberland, thou ladder by the which My cousin Bolingbroke ascends my throne;' Though then, God knows, I had no such intent But that necessity so bow'd the state That I and greatness were compell'd to kiss: 'The time shall come,' thus did he follow it, 'The time will come, that foul sin, gathering head, Shall break into corruption:' so went on, Foretelling this same time's condition And the division of our amity.
My father was a Mortimer,--
Will this capriccio hold in thee? art sure?
That gave him out incurable,--
And I 'll stick by him, sir.
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted. See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death! O, may such purple tears be alway shed From those that wish the downfall of our house! If any spark of life be yet remaining, Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither: I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear. Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of; For I have often heard my mother say I came into the world with my legs forward: Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste, And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right? The midwife wonder'd and the women cried O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth' And so I was; which plainly signified That I should snarl and bite and play the dog. Then, since the heavens have shaped my body so, Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it. I have no brother, I am like no brother; And this word 'love,' which greybeards call divine, Be resident in men like one another And not in me: I am myself alone. Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light: But I will sort a pitchy day for thee; For I will buz abroad such prophecies That Edward shall be fearful of his life, And then, to purge his fear, I'll be thy death. King Henry and the prince his son are gone: Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest, Counting myself but bad till I be best. I'll throw thy body in another room And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom. [Exit with the body. 
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens, Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch! O, beat away the busy meddling fiend That lays strong siege unto this wretch's soul And from his bosom purge this black despair?
Ay, but these rags are no part of the duke: Jove sometime went disguised, and why not I?
Even she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
'Tis well done. My friends and brethren in these great affairs, I must acquaint you that I have received New-dated letters from Northumberland; Their cold intent, tenor and substance, thus: Here doth he wish his person, with such powers As might hold sortance with his quality, The which he could not levy; whereupon He is retired, to ripe his growing fortunes, To Scotland: and concludes in hearty prayers That your attempts may overlive the hazard And fearful meeting of their opposite.
Gods and goddesses, All the whole synod of them!
O, good my lord, you have lost a friend indeed; And I dare swear you borrow not that face Of seeming sorrow, it is sure your own.
Grant that our hopes, yet likely of fair birth, Should be still-born, and that we now possess'd The utmost man of expectation, I think we are a body strong enough, Even as we are, to equal with the king.
Prithee, let him   alone; we shall have more anon.
He is, Sir John: I fear we shall stay too long.
Indeed, Sir John, you said so.
Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
Come hither, Proculeius. Go and say, We purpose her no shame: give her what comforts The quality of her passion shall require, Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke She do defeat us; for her life in Rome Would be eternal in our triumph: go, And with your speediest bring us what she says, And how you find of her.
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends; Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently, And then do execution on the watch. An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion. 
The greater cantle of the world is lost With very ignorance; we have kiss'd away Kingdoms and provinces.
Thou hast astonish'd me with thy high terms: Only this proof I'll of thy valour make, In single combat thou shalt buckle with me, And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true; Otherwise I renounce all confidence.
Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down? 'Sblood, I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.   What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
You may: but if he had been a man's tailor, he'd ha' pricked you. Wilt thou make as many holes in an enemy's battle as thou hast done in a woman's petticoat?
He stays upon your will.
Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride And greatness of his place be grief to us, Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal: His insolence is more intolerable Than all the princes in the land beside: If Gloucester be displaced, he'll be protector.
An he had been cannibally given, he might have broiled and eaten him too.
It grieves his highness: good my lords, be friends.
He'll never yield to that.
What, ho, the emperor's guard! The guard, what, ho! Come, your lord calls!
Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that, France were no place for Henry's warriors; Nor should that nation boast it so with us, But be extirped from our provinces.
I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens I am too perfect in; and, but for shame, In such a parley should I answer thee. I understand thy kisses and thou mine, And that's a feeling disputation: But I will never be a truant, love, Till I have learn'd thy language; for thy tongue Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd, Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower. With ravishing division, to her lute.
And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her.
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
O Lod! good my lord captain,-
I think thee now some common customer.
Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon: Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so, I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee: Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
And you by land.
And am not I a prelate of the church?
We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely; therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you have answered to his reputation with the duke and to his valor: what is his honesty?
Peace, fellow, peace; stand aside: know you where you are?   For the other, Sir John: let me see: Simon Shadow!
Nay, that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice.
Anon, anon.
Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.

Wouldst have me kneel? first let me ask of these, If they can brook I bow a knee to man. Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail: I know, ere they will have me go to ward, They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
Else he had been damned for cozening  the devil.
Come, come, let's fall in with them.
The more I stay, the more I'll succour thee.
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in England, I could find it in my heart.
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
The duty that I owe unto your majesty I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe. Q. Eliz. Thanks, noble Clarence; worthy brother, thanks.
So that, by this, you would not have him die.
I would it were otherwise; I would my means were greater, and my waist slenderer.
Nay, more, the king's council are no good workmen.
Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow Never to lie and take his natural rest Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd. Second   Watch. To-morrow then belike shall be the day, If Warwick be so near as men report.
Soldiers, have careful watch.
Harry the Fourth? or Fifth?
Know, then, I came before you here a man prepared To take this offer: but Mark Antony Put me to some impatience: though I lose The praise of it by telling, you must know, When Csar and your brother were at blows, Your mother came to Sicily and did find Her welcome friendly.
What you command, that rests in me to do.
Health to my sovereign, and new happiness Added to that that I am to deliver! Prince John your son doth kiss your grace's hand: Mowbray, the Bishop Scroop, Hastings and all Are brought to the correction of your law; There is not now a rebel's sword unsheathed, But Peace puts forth her olive every where. The manner how this action hath been borne Here at more leisure may your highness read, With every course in his particular.
Began to give me ground: but I followed  me close, came in foot and hand; and with a thought seven of the eleven I paid.
What is his reputation with the duke?
Farewell, farewell.
Before the game is afoot, thou still let'st slip.
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied, And peace established between these realms. But there remains a scruple in that too; For though her father be the King of Naples, Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor, And our nobility will scorn the match.
Lady, wherefore talk you so?
I then did use the person of your father; The image of his power lay then in me: And, in the administration of his law, Whiles I was busy for the commonwealth, Your highness pleased to forget my place, The majesty and power of law and justice, The image of the king whom I presented, And struck me in my very seat of judgement; Whereon, as an offender to your father, I gave bold way to my authority And did commit you. If the deed were ill, Be you contented, wearing now the garland, To have a son set your decrees at nought, To pluck down justice from your awful bench, To trip the course of law and blunt the sword That guards the peace and safety of your person; Nay, more, to spurn at your most royal image And mock your workings in a second body. Question your royal thoughts, make the case yours; Be now the father and propose a son, Hear your own dignity so much profaned, See your most dreadful laws so loosely slighted, Behold yourself so by a son disdain'd; And then imagine me taking your part And in your power soft silencing your son: After this cold considerance, sentence me; And, as you are a king, speak in your state What I have done that misbecame my place, My person, or my liege's sovereignty.
Here comes the earl.
My lord, a prize, a prize! here's the Lord Say, which sold the towns in France; he that made us pay one and twenty fifteens, and one shilling to the pound, the last subsidy.
That's for advantage.
Now, by the death of Him that died for all, These counties were the keys of Normandy. But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
You mistake me, sir.
She is not, madam.
Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off?
To wake a wolf is as bad as to smell a fox.
Good   Mistress Tearsheet come to my master.
Less noise, less noise
But cloaks and gowns, before this day, a many.
Well, by my will we shall admit no parley.
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words, Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
Fulvia is dead.
Thou art reverent Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
Let his shames quickly Drive him to Rome: 'tis time we twain Did show ourselves i' the field; and to that end Assemble we immediate council: Pompey Thrives in our idleness.
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down. My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt; and would to God You were of our determination Some of us love you well; and even those some Envy your great deservings and good name, Because you are not of our quality, But stand against us like an enemy.
So should you be.
Ay, and for much more slaughter after this. O, God forgive my sins, and pardon thee!
He knows that you embrace not Antony As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
What's he approacheth boldly our presence?
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people!
Against my master, Thomas Horner, for saying that the Duke of York was rightful heir to the crown.
My lord, methinks, is very long in talk.
My crown is in my heart, not on my head; Not deck'd with diamonds and Indian stones, Nor to be seen: my crown is called content: A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
Some sack, Francis.
I could have given less matter A better ear. Menas, I did not think This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm For such a petty war: his soldiership Is twice the other twain: but let us rear The higher our opinion, that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
If I see any thing to-night why I should not marry her to-morrow, in the congregation, where I should wed, here will I shame her.
Francis! Enter FRANCIS. 
Show me which way.
Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no honester than I.
But you say she's honest.
I thought as much; he would be above the clouds.
No more than when my daughters call thee mother. Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children; And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor, Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing To be the father unto many sons. Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
Well, well; We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow ? Go put on thy defences.
Dead, then ?
I speak not to that railing Hecate, But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest; Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
And he of these that can do most of all Cannot do more in England than the Nevils: Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers.
He will, forsooth, have all my prisoners; And when I urged the ransom once again Of my wife's brother, then his cheek look'd pale, And on my face he turn'd an eye of death, Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her: sure, they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.
Csar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
Sir John Falstaff, a word with you.
Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand  pound.
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield; Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks The pauses that he makes.
Get thee gone: Say to Ventidius I would speak with him: He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap, He hath spoken true : the very dice obey him; And in our sports my better cunning faints Under his chance : if we draw lots, he speeds; His cocks do win the battle still of mine, When it is all to nought; and his quails ever Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt: And though I make this marriage for my peace, I' the east my pleasure lies. Enter VENTIDIUS.  O, come, Ventidius, You must to Parthia: your commission's ready; Follow me, and receive't.
By these ten bones, my lords, he did speak them to me in the garret one night, as we were scouring my Lord of York's armour.
Good morrow; and God save your majesty!
Away!
And truly, as I hope to live.
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
He is very near by this: he was not three leagues off when I left him.
My good lord, I guess their tenour.
Do, my lord.
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth; it catches.
It shall; Only reserved, you claim no interest In any of our towns of garrison.
For shame, come down: he made thee Duke of York.
We have beat him to his camp: run one before, And let the queen know of our gests. Tomorrow, Before the sun shall see 's, we'll spill the blood That has to-day escaped. I thank you all; For doughty-handed are you, and have fought Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors. Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends, Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears Wash the congealment from your wounds, and kiss The honor'd gashes whole. Give me thy hand; Enter CLEOPATRA, attended.  To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts, Make her thanks bless thee. To Cleo. O thou day o' the world, Chain mine arm'd neck; leap thou, attire and all, Through proof of harness to my heart, and there Ride on the pants triumphing!
Soundly, my lord.
Will your grace command me any service to the world's end? I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on; I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the furthest inch of Asia, bring you the length of Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies, rather than hold three words' conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me?
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o' mornings; what should that bode?
Csar: and that, having in Sicily Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him His part o' the isle: then does he say, he lent me Some shipping unrestored: lastly, he frets That Lepidus of the triumvirate Should be deposed; and, being, that we detain All his revenue.
Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent, Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down; Home to your cottages, forsake this groom: The king is merciful, if you revolt.
O, that this good blossom could be kept from cankers! Well, there is sixpence to preserve thee.
Sirra, you must give my mistris your posey.
You have hit it.
Thou art a very ragged wart.
And 'twere to give again,but 'tis no matter. Re-enter two other Citizens. 
Give me leave, Csar,
Then are we all undone. It is not possible, it cannot be, The king should keep his word in loving us; He will suspect us still and find a time To punish this offence in other faults: Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes; For treason is but trusted like the fox, Who, ne'er so tame, so cherish'd and lock'd up, Will have a wild trick of his ancestors. Look how we can, or sad or merrily, Interpretation will misquote our looks, And we shall feed like oxen at a stall, The better cherish'd, still the nearer death. My nephew's trespass may be well forgot; It hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood, And an adopted name of privilege, A hare-brain'd Hotspur, govern'd by a spleen: All his offences live upon my head And on his father's; we did train him on, And, his corruption being ta'en from us, We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all. Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know, In any case, the offer of the king.
Then, nobly, York; 'tis for a crown thou fight'st. As I intend, Clifford, to thrive to-day, It grieves my soul to leave thee unassail'd.
France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears, If Talbot but survive thy treachery. Pucelle, that witch, that damned sorceress, Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares, That hardly we escaped the pride of France. An alarum: excursions.   BEDFORD, brought in sick in a chair.  Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without:
within LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON, and REIG-
NIER, on the walls. 
His eldest sister, Anne, My mother, being heir unto the crown, Married Richard Earl of Cambridge; who was son To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son. By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir To Roger Earl of March, who was the son Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe, Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence: So, if the issue of the elder son Succeed before the younger, I am king.
Why, brother Rivers, are you yet to learn What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.
I pray you, what is he?
He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
Sir John, you loiter here too long, being you are to take soldiers up in counties as you go.
Will she away to-night?
Sir, He fell upon me ere admitted: then Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want Of what I was i' the morning: but next day I told him of myself; which was as much As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow Be nothing of our strife; if we contend, Out of our question wipe him.
'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won; For which I will divide my crown with her, And all the priests and friars in my realm Shall in procession sing her endless praise. A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear Than Rhodope's or Memphis' ever was: In memory of her when she is dead, Her ashes, in an urn more precious Than the rich-jewel'd coffer of Darius, Transported shall be at high festivals Before the kings and queens of France, No longer on Saint Denis will we cry, But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint. Come in, and let us banquet royally, After this golden day of victory.
These news I must confess are full of grief; Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may: Warwick may lose, that now hath won the day.
I thought, at least, he would have said the king; Or did he make the jest against his will?
Is it possible he should know what he is, and be that he is?
Shall we go draw our numbers and set on?
Sir, my lord would speak with you.
These four came all a-front, and mainly thrust at me.   I made me no more ado but took all their seven points in my target, thus.
Come, wilt thou see me ride? And when I am o' horseback, I will swear I love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate; I must not have you henceforth question me Whither I go, nor reason whereabout: Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude, This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate. I know you wise, but yet no farther wise Than Harry Percy's wife: constant you are, But yet a woman: and for secrecy, No lady closer; for I well believe Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know; And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
What's the noise ?
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
May Iden live to merit such a bounty, And never live but true unto his liege! Enter QUEEN and SOMERSET. 
Like thy breath, sweet-hart, no violet like 'em.
Just, you say well; so would I have said.
Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee! Retreat: excursions. LA PUCELLE, ALENCON,
               and CHARLES fly. 
Good queen, let us entreat you.
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us. Is your master here in London?
This doom, my lord, if I may judge: Let Somerset be regent o'er the French, Because in York this breeds suspicion: And let these have a day appointed them For single combat in convenient place, For he hath witness of his servant's malice: This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have been a rod to her friends; you have not indeed loved the common people.
Ay, and the very parings of our nails Shall pitch a field when we are dead.
Hear me, queen: The strong necessity of time commands Our services awhile; but my full heart Remains in use with you. Our Italy Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome: Equality of two domestic powers Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength, Are newly grown to love: the condemn'd Pompey, Rich in his father's honor, creeps apace, Into the hearts of such as have not thrived Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten; And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge By any desperate change: my more particular, And that which most with you should safe my going, Is Fulvia's death.
Feare him said you? tush, were he heere, we would kill hin presently.
How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit, Before thou make a trial of her love?
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
I hear, yet say not much, but think the more. Enter a Post. 
Who struck this heat up after I was gone?
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room, and lend me thy hand to laugh a little.
Ungentle queen, to call him gentle Suffolk! No more, I say: if thou dost plead for him, Thou wilt but add increase unto my wrath. Had I but said, I would have kept my word, But when I swear, it is irrevocable. If, after three days' space, thou here be'st found On any ground that I am ruler of, The world shall not be ransom for thy life. Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me; I have great matters to impart to thee.
Ten hundred thousand crownes,  Master  Mr.   Barabas .
Rightly reasoned, and in his own division: and, by my troth, there's one meaning well suited.
Admiringly, my liege, at first I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue: Where the impression of mine eye infixing, Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me, Which warp'd the line of every other favour; Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen; Extended or contracted all proportions To a most hideous object: thence it came That she whom all men praised and whom myself, Since I have lost, have loved, was in mine eye The dust that did offend it.
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother, We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled Till we do hear from them.
'Tis very true.
Nothing but papers, my lord.
An uproar, I dare warrant, Begun through malice of the bishop's men. Enter Mayor. 
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your greatness back?
Where have you this ? 'tis false.
Soft, Csar !
Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
But he loves Csar best; yet he loves Antony: Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number, ho! His love to Antony. But as for Csar, Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage; and so I commit you
True; who bears hard His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop. I speak not this in estimation, As what I think might be, but what I know Is ruminated, plotted and set down, And only stays but to behold the face Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
Thanks, gentle duke.   But where is Pucelle now? I think her old familiar is asleep: Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks? What, all amort?   Rouen hangs her head for grief That such a valiant company are fled. Now will we take some order in the town, Placing therein some expert officers, And then depart to Paris to the king, For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
So. Thus then, thou most renown'd: Csar entreats, Not to consider in what case thou stand'st, Further than he is Csar.
Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
I am a knight, sir; and my name is Colevile of the dale.
Come, let's all take hands, Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense In soft and delicate Lethe.
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
And you in hell, as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of.
Stay, my lord legate: you shall first receive The sum of money which I promised Should be deliver'd to his holiness For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
I have done my work ill, friends: O, make an end Of what I have begun.
Well hath your highness seen into this duke; And, had I first been put to speak my mind, I think I should have told your grace's tale. The duchess by his subornation, Upon my life, began her devilish practices: Or, if he were not privy to those faults, Yet, by reputing of his high descent, As next the king he was successive heir, And such high vaunts of his nobility, Did instigate the bedlam brain-sick duchess By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall. Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep; And in his simple show he harbours treason. The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb. No, no, my sovereign; Gloucester is a man Unsounded yet and full of deep deceit.
Very well, my lord, very well: rather, an't please you, it is the disease of not listen- ing, the malady of not marking, that I am troubled withal.
Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge: when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.   Farewell, and stand fast.
I say, O Csar, Antony is dead.
His lordship is walk'd forth into the orchard; Please it your honour, knock but at the gate, And he himself will answer.
Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
Hang it!
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
No part of him but will be shame in me.
Hold, Richard, hold; for we
have done too much.
Why, here's a girl!   I think she knows not well, There were so many, whom she may accuse.
Sir, his chests and treasure He has not with him.
O, let me live! And all the secrets of our camp I'll show, Their force, their purposes; nay, I'll speak that Which you will wonder at.
Why  ,   how now  Jacomo  Jocoma  , what  hast  has  thou done?
Send Colevile with his confederates To York, to present execution: Blunt, lead him hence; and see you guard him sure. And now dispatch we toward the court, my lords: I hear the king my father is sore sick: Our news shall go before us to his majesty, Which, cousin, you shall bear to comfort him, And we with sober speed will follow you.
How now, daughter and cousin! are you crept hither to see the wrestling ?
Why, knows not Montague that of itself England is safe, if true within itself?
What means his grace, that he hath changed his style? No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!' Hath he forgot he is his sovereign? Or doth this churlish superscription Pretend some alteration in good will? What's here 'I have, upon especial cause, Moved with compassion of my country's wreck, Together with the pitiful complaints Of such as your oppression feeds upon, Forsaken your pernicious faction And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.' O monstrous treachery! can this be so, That in alliance, amity and oaths, There should be found such false dissembling guile?
Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say otherwise.
Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake her with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats.
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue: I am a king, and privileged to speak.
Good den, brother.
Why, then, your brown bastard is your only drink; for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet will sully: in Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.
They told me that your name was Fontibell.
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space. Kingdoms are clay: our dungy earth alike Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life Is to do thus; when such a mutual pair And such a twain can do't, in which I bind, On pain of punishment, the world to weet We stand up peerless.
Go to the gates of Bourdeaux, trumpeter; Summon their general unto the wall. English John Talbot, captains, calls you forth, Servant in arms to Harry King of England; And thus he would: Open your city gates; Be humble to us; call my sovereign yours, And do him homage as obedient subjects; And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power: But, if you frown upon this proffer'd peace, You tempt the fury of my three attendants, Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire; Who in a moment even with the earth Shall lay your stately and air-braving towers, If you forsake the offer of their love
My gracious lord, you look beyond him quite: The prince but studies his companions Like a strange tongue, wherein, to gain the language, 'Tis needful that the most immodest word Be look'd upon and learn'd; which once attain'd, Your highness knows, comes to no further use But to be known and hated. So, like gross terms, The prince will in the perfectness of time Cast off his followers; and their memory Shall as a pattern or a measure live, By which his grace must mete the lives of others, Turning past evils to advantages.
Snare, we must arrest Sir John Falstaff.
Such it seems As may beseem a monarch like himself. Myself have often heard him say and swear That this his love was an eternal plant, Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground, The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun, Exempt from envy, but not from disdain, Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
It doth, it doth, it doth.
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
Let me seeabout Michaelmas next I shall be
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as true-bred cowards as ever turned back; and for the third, if he fight longer than he sees reason, I'll forswear arms. The virtue  of this jest will be, the incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at least, he fought with; what wards, what blows, what extremities he endured; and in the reproof of this lies the jest.
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
Tut! our horses they shall not see: I'll tie them in the wood; our vizards we will change after we leave them: and, sirrah, I have cases of buckram for the nonce, to immask  our noted outward garments.
And bound them.
Peruse them well: Not one of those but had a noble father. 
I saw her once Hop forty paces through the public street; And having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted, That she did make defect perfection, And, breathless, power breathe forth.
Beatrice,
What's he that goes there?
Well, is it, is it ?
The music is come, sir.
Speak, Winchester; for boiling choler chokes The hollow passage of my poison'd voice, By sight of these our baleful enemies.
Why, there 'tis; so say I too.
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame. I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren: I told him, and I think I told him true, that your grace had got the good will of this young lady; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree, either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.
This battle fares like to the morning's war, What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails, When dying clouds contend with growing light Can neither call it perfect day nor night. Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea Forced by the tide to combat with the wind; Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea Forced to retire by fury of the wind: Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind; Now one the better, then another best; Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast, Yet neither conqueror nor conquered: So is the equal poise of this fell war. Here on this molehill will I sit me down. To whom God will, there be the victory! For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too, Have chid me from the battle; swearing both They prosper best of all when I am thence. Would I were dead! if God's good will were so; For what is in this world but grief and woe? O! God! methinks it were a happy life, To be no better than a homely swain; To sit upon a hill, as I do now, To carve out dials quaintly, point by point, Thereby to see the minutes how they run, How many make the hour full complete; How many hours bring about the day; How many days will finish up the year; How many years a mortal man may live. When this is known, then to divide the times: So many hours must I tend my flock; So many hours must I take my rest; So many hours must I contemplate; So many hours must I sport myself; So many days my ewes have been with young; So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean; So many years ere I shall shear the fleece: So minutes, hours, days, months, and years, Pass'd over to the end they were created, Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave. Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely! Gives not the hawthorn-bush a sweeter shade To shepherds looking on their silly sheep, Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy To kings that fear their subjects' treachery? O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth. And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds, His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle, His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade, All which secure and sweetly he enjoys, 50 Is far beyond a prince's delicates, His viands sparkling in a golden cup, His body couched in a curious bed, When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him. 
Resign it then and leave thine insolence. Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou? The commonwealth hath daily run to wreck; The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas; And all the peers and nobles of the realm Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
And Adam was a gardener.
How will the country for these woful chances Misthink the king and not be satisfied!
Music i' the air.
Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard: A young man married is a man that's marr'd: Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go: The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
Welcome, great  Bashaw  Bashaws  Bashaw  , how fares Callymath , var:#drives you thus] thus drives you C, B#  what wind  drives you thus  thus drives you  into Malta rhode?
Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
How doth my son and brother? Thou tremblest; and the whiteness in thy cheek Is apter than thy tongue to tell thy errand. Even such a man, so faint, so spiritless, So dull, so dead in look, so woe-begone, Drew Priam's curtain in the dead of night, And would have told him half his Troy was burnt; But Priam found the fire ere he his tongue, And I my Percy's death ere thou report'st it. This thou wouldst say, 'Your son did thus and thus; Your brother thus: so fought the noble Douglas:' Stopping my greedy ear with their bold deeds: But in the end, to stop my ear indeed, Thou hast a sigh to blow away this praise, Ending with 'Brother, son, and all are dead.'
Well, how then? come, roundly, roundly.
Fair maid, is't thou who will do these wondrous feats?
Pride went before, ambition follows him. While these do labour for their own preferment, Behoves it us to labour for the realm. I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester Did bear him like a noble gentleman. Oft I have seen the haughty cardinal, More like a soldier than a man o' the church, As stout and proud as he were lord of all, Swear like a ruffian and demean himself Unlike the ruler of a commonweal. Warwick, my son, the comfort of my age, Thy deeds, thy plainness and thy housekeeping, Hath won the greatest favour of the commons, Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey: And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland, In bringing them to civil discipline, Thy late exploits done in the heart of France, When thou wert regent for our sovereign. Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people: Join we together, for the public good, In what we can, to bridle and suppress The pride of Suffolk and the cardinal, With Somerset's and Buckingham's ambition; And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds, While they do tend the profit of the land.

If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be otherwise.
Hugh Otecake, sir, or George Seacole; for they can write and read.
Come to the king and tell him what miracle.
Nay, be not angry; I am pleased again.
Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates All that is won and lost: give me a kiss; Even this repays me. We sent our schoolmaster; Is he come back ? Love, I am full of lead. Some wine, within there, and our viands! Fortune knows We scorn her most when most she offers blows.
Who saw the Duke of Clarence?
Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
Is my name Talbot? and am I your son? And shall I fly?   O, if you love my mother, Dishonour not her honourable name, To make a bastard and a slave of me! The world will say, he is not Talbot's blood, That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
Speak thou for me and tell them what I did.
I know enough, and therfore talke not to me of your var:#-house:] ~,#  Counting  -house:  ,  the gold, or know Jew it is in my power to hang thee.
His good remembrance, sir, Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb; So in approof lives not his epitaph As in your royal speech.
O, I do not like that paying back; 'tis a double labour.
We came hither to fight with you.
I have fled myself; and have instructed cowards To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone; I have myself resolved upon a course Which has no need of you; be gone: My treasure's in the harbor, take it. O, I follow'd that I blush to look upon: My very hairs do mutiny; for the white Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them For fear and doting. Friends, be gone: you shall Have letters from me to some friends that will Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad, Nor make replies of loathness: take the hint Which my despair proclaims; let that be left Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway: I will possess you of that ship and treasure. Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now: Nay, do so; for, indeed, I have lost command, Therefore I pray you: I'll see you by and by. Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS; EROS following. 
It was more of his courtesy than your deserving.
But came it freely, did the Cow give down her milk freely?
Cousin, farewell: no further go in this Than I by letters shall direct your course. When time is ripe, which will be suddenly, I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer; Where you and Douglas and our powers at once, As I will fashion it, shall happily meet, To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms, Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
Anon, anon, sir.
No, you shall pardon me.
Under the canopy.
Oh earth-mettall'd villaines, and no Hebrews born! And will you basely thus submit your selves To leave your goods to their arbitrament?
There let his head and lifeless body lie. Until the queen his mistress bury it.
As the event stamps them: but they have a good cover; they show well outward. The prince and Count Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were much overheard by a man of mine: the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a dance; and if he found her accordant, he meant to take the present time by the top and instantly break with you of it.
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
I must wait upon my lord here; I thank you, good Sir John.
Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea, Disgracing of these colours that I wear In honour of my noble Lord of York: Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest?
You shall have letters of me presently: Come, go along with me, good Master Gower.
O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones, Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby! Queen. Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest, And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.
Ho! Noble captain, come.
And further, I have learn'd, The king himself in person is set forth, Or hitherwards intended speedily, With strong and mighty preparation.
Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness, then, To make the fox surveyor of the fold? Who being accused a crafty murderer, His guilt should be but idly posted over, Because his purpose is not executed. No; let him die, in that he is a fox, By nature proved an enemy to the flock, Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood, As Humphrey, proved by reasons, to my liege, And do not stand on quillets how to slay him: Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety, Sleeping or waking, 'tis no matter how, So he be dead; for that is good deceit Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
I will praise any man that will praise me; though it cannot be denied what I have done by land.
Good morrow, good my lord.
Born blind, an't please your grace.
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise; for either he avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christian-like fear.
Very true, sir; and I come to draw you out by the ears.
With most gladness: And do invite you to my sister's view, Whither straight I'll lead you.
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song; make me merry. I was as virtuously  given as a gentleman need to be; virtuous  enough; swore little; diced not above seven times a week; went to a bawdy-house not above once in a quarterof an hour; paid money that I borrowed, three or four times; lived well and in good compass: and now I live out of all order, out of all compass.
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he comes himself. Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he says, is muddied withal:  pray you, sir, use the carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed, ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his distress in my similes of comfort and leave him to your lordship. [Exit. 
Away! be gone. Sound trumpets. Enter the KING, the QUEEN, CARDINAL BEAUFORT. SOMERSET, with Attendants. 
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it is, that he will steal himself into a man's favour and for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but when you find him out, you have him ever after.
I say the earth did shake when I was born.
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt, Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain; And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth, Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest; And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth, Who by his prowess conquered all France: From these our Henry lineally descends.
What, fought you with them all?
The Hat he weares, Judas left under the Elder when he hang'd 
himselfe.
And still is friend to him and Margaret: But if your title to the crown be weak, As may appear by Edward's good success, Then 'tis but reason that I be released From giving aid which late I promised. Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand That your estate requires and mine can yield.
Antony, thou wouldst say,
By her he had two children at one birth.
He is not there to-day; he dines in London.
Now the Lord lighten thee! thou art a great fool.
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes you; for, out of question, you were born in a merry hour.
As they pinch one another by the disposition, he cries out 'No more;' reconciles them to his entreaty, and himself to the drink.
Nay, I'll fit you, And not be all day neither.
I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men; But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease, That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart That slanders me with murder's crimson badge. Say, if thou darest, proud Lord of Warwickshire, That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
Good morrow, noble captain.
How now, how now, mad wag! what, in thy quips and thy quiddities? what a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin?
Then let it do at once The thing why thou hast drawn it.
Marry, have we, sir. Will you sit?
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
What else?
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses!
And yet a dispensation may be had.
Thy wife too! that's some wrong, indeed. What's yours?   What's here? 'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing the commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
That all your interest in those territories Is utterly bereft you; all is lost.
Shall I return this answer to the king?
If one so rude and of so mean condition May pass into the presence of a king, Lo, I present your grace a traitor's head, The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
A good knave, i' faith, and well fed. Madam, my lord will go away to-night; A very serious business calls on him. The great prerogative and rite of love, Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge; But puts it off to a compell'd restraint; Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets, Which they distil now in the curbed time, To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy And pleasure drown the brim.
Borachio.
Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord. The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong, Is marching hitherwards; with him Prince John.
There's a dish of leather-coats for you.
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence I will away towards Barnet presently, And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
How, halfe his estate?    I hope you meane not mine.   
Good morrow, good cousin Shallow.
You say true: Why, what a candy deal of courtesy This fawning greyhound then did proffer me! Look, 'when his infant fortune came to age,' And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin;' O, the devil take such cozeners! God forgive me! Good uncle, tell your tale; I have done.
No, in such a case the gods will not be good unto us. When we banished him, we respected not them; and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
O my royal father!
Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
Eros ! mine armor, Eros!
Come, let us to the banquet.
Why, he hacked it with his dagger, and said he would swear truth out of England but he would make you believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well, To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales Unto the brother of your loving bride; She better would have fitted me or Clarence: But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
My sword is drawn.
Anjou and Maine are given to the French; Paris is lost; the state of Normandy Stands on a tickle point, now they are gone: Suffolk concluded on the articles, The peers agreed, and Henry was well pleased To change two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter. I cannot blame them all: what is't to them? 'Tis thine they give away, and not their own. Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage And purchase friends and give to courtezans, Still revelling like lords till all be gone; While as the silly owner of the goods Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof, While all is shared and all is borne away, Ready to starve and dare not touch his own: So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue, While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold. Methinks the realms of England, France and Ireland Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood As did the fatal brand Altha burn'd Unto the prince's heart of Calydon. Anjou and Maine both given unto the French! Cold news for me, for I had hope of France, Even as I have of fertile England's soil. A day will come when York shall claim his own: And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey, And, when I spy advantage, claim the crown, For that's the golden mark I seek to hit: Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right, Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist, Nor wear the diadem upon his head, Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown. Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve: Watch thou and wake when others be asleep. To pry into the secrets of the state; Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love, With his new bride and England's dearbought queen, And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars: Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose, With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfumed; And in my standard bear the arms of York, To grapple with the house of Lancaster; And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown, Whose bookish rule hath pull'd fair England down.
I will serve you, Sir.
In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet?
I am commanded here, and kept a coil with 'Too young' and 'the next year' and 'tis too early.'
What wind blew you hither, Pistol?
I will not desire that.
To us no more; nay, not so much, Lord Bardolph. For his divisions, as the times do brawl, Are in three heads: one power against the French, And one against Glendower; perforce a third Must take up us: so is the unfirm king In three divided; and his coffers sound With hollow poverty and emptiness.
My liege, his railing is intolerable: If those that care to keep your royal person From treason's secret knife and traitors' rage Be thus upbraided, chid and rated at, And the offender granted scope of speech, 'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace.
There she appeared indeed; or my reporter devised well for her.
I give it you, and will maintain my word: And thereupon I drink unto your grace.
Let our best heads Know, that to-morrow the last of many battles We mean to fight: within our files there are, Of those that served Mark Antony but late, Enough to fetch him in. See it done: And feast the army; we have store to do't, And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony !
No; I pray thee speak in sober judgement.
Very well; and could be content to give him good report for 't, but that he pays himself with being proud.
Ay, my good lord:--my lord, I should say rather; 'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better: 'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike. And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
And so did I.
Peter! what more?
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of. I think it cites us, brother, to the field, That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet, Each one already blazing by our meeds, Should not withstanding join our lights together And over-shine the earth as this the world. Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear Upon my target three fair-shining suns.
It doth so.
Yes, Sir, the proverb saies, he that eats with the devil had need of a long spoone. I have brought you a Ladle.
The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought Thy likeness, for instead of thee, King Harry, This sword hath ended him: so shall it thee, Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.
The star is fall'n.
You have received many wounds for your country.
Say in mine ear: what is't ?
Welcome, Ancient Pistol. Here, Pistol, I charge you with a cup of sack: do you discharge upon mine hostess.
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon, Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay. O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain The flower of Europe for his chivalry; And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him, For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee. Now my soul's palace is become a prison: Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body Might in the ground be closed up in rest! For never henceforth shall I joy again, Never, O never, shall I see more joy!
Who does he accuse ?
Thanks to my lord. The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak, Your reconciler ! Wars 'twixt you twain would be As if the world should cleave, and that slain men Should solder up the rift.
Brave thee! ay, by the best blood that ever was broached, and beard thee too. Look on me well: I have eat no meat these five days; yet, come thou and thy five men, and if I do not leave you all as dead as a doornail, I pray God I may never eat grass more.
Lost, and recover'd in a day again! This is a double honour, Burgundy: Yet heavens have glory for this victory!
He doth revive again: madam, be patient.
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun: so is your crocodile.
Oh bravely done.
What good is this to England and himself!
I have heard it, Pompey; And am well studied for a liberal thanks Which I do owe you.
What ring was yours, I pray you?
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power, Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent, Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud, Can set the duke up in despite of me.
Royal commanders, be in readiness: For with a band of thirty thousand men Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York: And in the towns, as they do march along, Proclaims him king, and many fly to him: Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st, Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
The circumstance consider'd, good my lord, Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said To such a person and in such a place, At such a time, with all the rest retold, May reasonably die and never rise To do him wrong or any way impeach What then he said, so he unsay it now.
Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars! He wears his honour in a box unseen, That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home, Spending his manly marrow in her arms, Which should sustain the bound and high curvet Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades; Therefore, to the war!
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all. Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close; And let us all to meditation.
But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk, Ere you can take due orders for a priest: Say you consent and censure well the deed, And I'll provide his executioner, I tender so the safety of my liege.
I will swear by it that you love me; and I will make him eat it that says I love not you.
O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads, And that no man might draw short breath to-day But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me, How show'd his tasking? seem'd it in contempt ?
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
God's secret judgement: I did dream to-night The duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the greater soldier.
They shall be no more than needful there, if they were more than they can commend. 
'Item, It is further agreed between them, that the duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be released and delivered over to the king her father, and she sent over of the King of England's own proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
Our great navy's rigg'd.
Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that, That were excusable, that, and thousands more Of semblable import,but he hath waged New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read it To public ear: Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not But pay me terms of honor, cold and sickly He vented them; most narrow measure lent me: When the best hint was given him, he not took 't, Or did it from his teeth.
That such a base slave as he should be saluted by such a tall man as I am, from such a beautifull dame as you.
How long hast thou to serve, Francis ?
This is his uncle's teaching: this is Worcester, Malevolent to you in all aspects: Which makes him prune himself, and bristle up The crest of youth against your dignity.
My name is Thyreus.
Under the earth.
That.
A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off: And yet, in faith, it is not; his present want Seems more than we shall find it: were it good To set the exact wealth of all our states All at one cast? to set so rich a main On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour? It were not good; for therein should we read The very bottom and the soul of hope, The very list, the very utmost bound Of all our fortunes.
He was; I heard the proclamation: And then it was when the unhappy king, Whose wrongs in us God pardon!did set forth Upon his Irish expedition; From whence he intercepted did return To be deposed and shortly murdered.
Sit.
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
Sir John, God save youl
She's dead, my queen: Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read The garboils she awaked; at the last, best: See when and where she died.
Well, I could reply: If we should serve with horse and mares together, The horse were merely lost; the mares would bear A soldier and his horse.
Come.
You make fat rascals, Mistress Doll.
No, no, they were not bound.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I thank my God it holds yet.
How is this derived? Saw you the field? came you from Shrewsbury?
What news, Lord Bardolph? every minute now Should be the father of some stratagem: The times are wild; contention, like a horse Full of high feeding, madly hath broke loose And bears down all before him.
So let it help me now against thy sword As I in justice and true right express it.
Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you are no husband for her.
I hope, my lord, all's well: what is the news, my lord?
Will 't please your grace to go along with us?
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled: Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit, But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts, And change misdoubt to resolution: Be that thou hopest to be, or what thou art Resign to death; it is not worth the enjoying: Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man, And find no harbour in a royal heart. Faster than spring-time showers comes thought on thought, And not a thought but thinks on dignity. My brain more busy than the labouring spider Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies. Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done, To send me packing with an host of men: I fear me you but warm the starved snake, Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting your hearts. 'Twas men I lack'd and you will give them me: I take it kindly; yet be well assured You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands. Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band, I will stir up in England some black storm Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell; And this fell tempest shall not cease to rage Until the golden circuit on my head, Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams, Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw. And, for a minister of my intent, I have seduced a headstrong Kentishman, John Cade of Ashford, To make a commotion, as full well he can, Under the title of John Mortimer. In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade Oppose himself against a troop of kerns, And fought so long, till that his thighs with darts Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine; And, in the end being rescued, I have seen Him caper upright like a wild Morisco, Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells. Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern, Hath he conversed with the enemy, And undiscover'd come to me again And given me notice of their villanies. This devil here shall be my substitute; For that John Mortimer, which now is dead, In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble: By this I shall perceive the commons' mind, How they affect the house and claim of York. Say he be taken, rack'd and tortured, I know no pain they can inflict upon him Will make him say I moved him to those arms. Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will, Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd; For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be, And Henry put apart, the next for me.
I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
That shall I do, my liege.   Stay, Salisbury, With the rude multitude till I return.
Be patient, lords; and give them leave to speak. Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim? And wherefore crave you combat? or with whom?
Sir John, I sent for you before your expedition to Shrewsbury.
Be not dismay'd, fair lady; nor misconstrue The mind of Talbot, as you did mistake The outward composition of his body. What you have done hath not offended me; Nor other satisfaction do I crave, But only, with your patience, that we may Taste of your wine and see what cates you have; For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him out o' the band:  I think I have his letter in my pocket.
Not yours; in good sooth!   Heart! you swear like a comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth,' and 'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and 'as sure as day,' And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths, As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury. Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art, A good mouth-filling oath, and leave 'in sooth,' And such protest of pepper-gingerbread, To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens. Come, sing.
Hold, Wart, traverse; thus, thus, thus.
There is more news: I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along, He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
Though no man be assured what grace to find, You stand in coldest expectation: I am the sorrier; would 'twere otherwise.
So cowards fight when they can fly no further; So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons; So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives, Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
I dare make his answer, none.
Upon thy princely warrant, I descend To give thee answer of thy just demand.
You do mistake your business; my brother never Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it; And have my learning from some true reports, That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours; And make the wars alike against my stomach, Having alike your cause ? Of this my letters Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel, As matter whole you have not to make it with, It must not be with this.
Csar and he are greater friends than ever.
She will, she will; justice hath liquored her.   We steal as in a castle, cocksure;  we have the receipt of fern-seed, we walk invisible.
Tut, that's a foolish observation; Richard, be Duke of Gloucester. Now to London, To see these honours in possession.
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it but that she loves him with an enraged affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
I would the cutting of my garments would serve the turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom, As being well content with that alone.
Peace, son! and show some reason, Buckingham, Why Somerset should be preferr'd in this. Queen. Because the king, forsooth, will have it so.
My meaning in 't, I protest, was very honest in the behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
Let there be the same net spread for her; and that must your daughter and her gentlewoman carry. The sport will be, when they hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
Noble Ventidius, Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm, The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media, Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither The routed fly: so thy grand captain Antony Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and Put garlands on thy head.
Good fortune, worthy soldier; and farewell.
Go, captain, and deliver to the army This news of peace: let them have pay, and part: I know it will well please them. Hie thee, captain.
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
While we pursued the horsemen of the north, He slily stole away and left his men: Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland, Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat, Cheer'd up the drooping army; and himself, Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford, all abreast, Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
No abuse, Hal.
It is shaped, sir, like itself; and it is as broad as it hath breadth: it is just so high as it is, and moves with its own organs: it lives by that which nourisheth it; and the elements once out of it, it transmigrates.
It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord, Young Bertram.
Hal, wilt thou make one?
Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
And there will we be too, ere it be long, Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame! Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house, Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France, Either to get the town again or die: And I, as sure as English Henry lives And as his father here was conqueror, As sure as in this late-betrayed town Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried, So sure I swear to get the town or die.
Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies' pyramises are very goodly things; without contradiction, I have heard that.
It shall be so; he shall to Britanny. Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
This they have promised, to show your highness A spirit raised from depth of under-ground, That shall make answer to such questions As by your grace shall be propounded him.
O gross and miserable ignorance!
I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in knowledge and accordingly valiant.
I came from Edward as ambassador, But I return his sworn and mortal foe: Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me, But dreadful war shall answer his demand. Had he none else to make a stale but me? Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow. I was the chief that raised him to the crown, And I'll be chief to bring him down again: Not that I pity Henry's misery, But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
Why, what of that?
There's two crownes for thee, play.
This is the strangest fellow, brother John. Come bring your luggage nobly on your back: For my part, if a lie may do thee grace, I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have. The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours. Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field, To see what friends are living, who are dead. [Exeunt Prince of Wales and Lancaster. 
She doth well: if she should make tender of her love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
And I this.
And, to speak truth, thou deservest no less. This monument of the victory will I bear and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse heels till I do come to London, where we will have the mayor's sword borne before us.
Be it so.
So that from point to point now have you heard The fundamental reasons of this war, Whose great decision hath much blood let forth And more thirsts after.
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need: A woman's general; what should we fear?
Alexander Iden, that's my name; A poor esquire of Kent, that loves his king.
How now, friend Eros!
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brother-like.
Die men like dogs! give crowns like pinsl Have we not Hiren here?
Let AEsop fable in winter's night; His currish riddles sort not with this place.
The question then, Lord Hastings, standeth thus; Whether our present five and twenty thousand May hold up head without Northumberland?
Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd: Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point With lustier maintenance than I did look for Of such an ungrown warrior.
The king, my lord, and Harry Prince of Wales Are near at hand: the rest the paper tells.
Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns you nearly.
Well, my Lord. He heard of your grace's coming to town: there's a letter for you.
If the business be of any difficulty, and this morning your departure hence, it requires haste of your lordship.
That's it; I would have said the very same.
Ay, dread queen.
I can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse: borrowing only lingers and lingers in it out, but the disease is incurable. Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster; this to the prince; this to the Earl of Westmoreland; and this to old Mistress Ursula, whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I perceived the first white hair on my chin. About it: you know where to find me. A pox of this gout! or, a gout of this pox! for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour, and my pension shall seem the more reasonable. A good wit will make use of any thing: I will turn diseases to commodity. [Exit. 
How now, masters!
Speak this no more.
My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot: It was the pleasure of my lord the king.
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens, One that still motions war and never peace, O'ercharging your free purses with large fines, That seeks to overthrow religion, Because he is protector of the realm, And would have armour here out of the Tower, To crown himself king and suppress the prince.
My lord!
I would Wart might have gone, sir.
Thou hast hit it; for there's no better sign of a brave mind than a hard hand.
Right: as 'twere, a man assured of a--
My noble brother !
We have, sir.
Sir, He is with Csar.
No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have your ladyship's good will to go to the world, Isbel the woman and I will do as we may.
To-night, say I.
My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. You call honourable boldness impudent sauciness: if a man will make courtesy and say nothing, he is virtuous: no, my lord, my humble duty remembered, I will not be your suitor. I say to you, I do desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty employment in the king's affairs.
This is the deadly spite that angers me; My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.
You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave? Now, by the ground that I am banish'd from, Well could I curse away a winter's night, Though standing naked on a mountain top, Where biting cold would never let grass grow, And think it but a minute spent in sport.
O, Harry, thou hast robb'd me of my youth! I better brook the loss of brittle life Than those proud titles thou hast won of me; They wound my thoughts worse than thy sword my flesh: But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool; And time, that takes survey of all the world, Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy, But that the earthy and cold hand of death Lies on my tongue: no, Percy, thou art dust, And food for-
Then, Saunder, sit there, the lyingest knave in Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou mightst as well have known all our names as thus to name the several colours we do wear. Sight may distinguish of colours, but suddenly to nominate them all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here hath done a miracle; and would ye not think his cunning to be great, that could restore this cripple to his legs again?
Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight: Our will is Antony be took alive; Make it so known.
And never could maintain his part but in the force of his will. 
Mine was secure.
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis-balls.
Pray God you do.
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
Nay, but hark you, Francis: for the sugar thou gavest me, 'twas a pennyworth, was't not?
And you by land.
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased By such invention as I can devise?
Peace ! what noise ?
Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry;  fill me a bottle of sack: our soldiers shall march through; we'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
Give it me: what, is it in the case?
O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
And thus I seal my truth, and bid adieu.
I think you are Sir John Falstaff, and in that thought yield me.
Ay, Hal; 'tis hot, 'tis hot; there's that will sack a city.
Naught, naught all, naught! I can behold no longer: The Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral, With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder: To see't mine eyes are blasted.
O, sir, pardon me!
There is no seeming mercy in the king.
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it would be argument  for a week, laughter for a month and a good jest for ever.
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
'Sir John Falstaff, knight, to the son of the king, nearest his father, Harry Prince of Wales, greeting.' Why, this is a certificate.
And those occasions, uncle, were of force: Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is That Richard be restored to his blood.
Come, shelter, shelter:   I have removed  Falstaff's horse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.
Yea, an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
Excellently.
Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation, body and soul.
Let us from point to point this story know, To make the even truth in pleasure flow. If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower, Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower; For I can guess that by thy honest aid Thou kept'st a wife herself, thyself a maid. Of that and all the progress, more and less, Resolvedly more leisure shall express: All yet seems well; and if it end so meet, The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet. [Flourish.  EPILOGUE. 
And I say the earth was not of my mind, If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
Fortune pursue thee!
Yea, and you knew me, as you did when you ran away by Gad's-hill: you knew I was at your back, and spoke it on purpose to try my patience.
In every good thing.
I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count, Since the physician at your father's died? He was much famed.
Up, and away! Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day. Alarum.  Enter FALSTAFF, solus. 
Hale him away, and let him talk no more.
Well, give them their charge, neighbor Dogberry.
Poor fellow, never joyed since the price of oats rose; it was the death of him.
Madam, be still; with reverence may I say; For every word you speak in his behalf Is slander to your royal dignity.

I would 'twere bed-time, Hal, and all well.
Nay, John, it will be stinking law; for his breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
And henceforward all things shall be in common.
Now shine it like a comet of revenge, A prophet to the fall of all our foes!
The hand of death hath raught him. Hark! the drums Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him To the court of guard; he is of note: our hour Is fully out.
'Fore God, a likely fellow Come, prick me Bullcalf till he roar again.
Silence!
His man?
Give him a box o' the ear and that will make 'em red again.
How doth the king?
Bravely, coragio!
There roar'd the sea, and trumpet clangor sounds. 
Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
Come, I will go drink with you, but I cannot tarry dinner. I am glad to see you, by my troth, Master Shallow.
Your brother he shall go along with me.
Master constable,
Do so; And those musicians that shall play to you Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence, And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.
I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure, Given order for our horses; and to-night, When I should take possession of the bride, End ere I do begin.
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn, Either to quell the Dauphin utterly, Or bring him in obedience to your yoke,
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
My Lord of York, try what your fortune is. The uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms And temper clay with blood of Englishmen: To Ireland will you lead a band of men, Collected choicely, from each county some, And try your hap against the Irishmen?
But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
If that thy father live, let him repent Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry To follow Csar in his triumph, since Thou hast been whipp'd for following him: henceforth The white hand of a lady fever thee, Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Csar, Tell him thy entertainment: look, thou say He makes me angry with him; for he seems Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am, Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry; And at this time most easy 'tis to do't, When my good stars, that were my former guides, Have empty left their orbs, and shot their fires Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike My speech and what is done, tell him he has Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture, As he shall like, to quit me: urge it thou: Hence with thy stripes, begone!
He needs as many, sir, as Csar has; Or needs not us. If Csar please, our master Will leap to be his friend: for us, you know, Whose he is we are, and that is, Csar's.
Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham, Is either slain or wounded dangerously; I cleft his beaver with a downright blow: That this is true, father, behold his blood.

Sir John!
That's the next to do.
The king's not here.
Here comes the prince.
How! the prince is a Jack, a sneakcup:  'sblood, an he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he would say so. How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith? must we all march?
For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon him for me, he's more and more a cat.
Herald, away; and throughout every town Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade; That those which fly before the battle ends May, even in their wives' and children's sight, Be hang'd up for example at their doors: And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
Now, what news?
Nay, I care not how much she loves me; var:#<I>Bellamira</I>] <I>Allamira</I>#
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the nurse and bid her still it.
Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
Well said, my noble Scot: if speaking truth In this fine age were not thought flattery, Such attribution should the Douglas have, As not a soldier of this season's stamp Should go so general current through the world. By God, I cannot flatter; I do defy The tongues of soothers; but a braver place In my heart's love hath no man than yourself: Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
Thou hast a sister by the mother's side, Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony Is now a widower.
Nor I.
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays The thing we sue for.
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
My gracious liege, this too much lenity And harmful pity must be laid aside. To whom do lions cast their gentle looks? Not to the beast that would usurp their den. Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick? Not his that spoils her young before her face. Who 'scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting? Not he that sets his foot upon her back. The smallest worm will turn being trodden on, And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood. Ambitious York did level at thy crown, Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows: He, but a duke, would have his son a king, And raise his issue, like a loving sire; Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son, Didst yield consent to disinherit him, Which argued thee a most unloving father. Unreasonable creatures feed their young; And though man's face be fearful to their eyes, Yet, in protection of their tender ones, Who hath not seen them, even with those wings Which sometime they have used with fearful flight, Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest, Offering their own lives in their young's defence? For shame, my liege, make them your precedent! Were it not pity that this goodly boy Should lose his birthright by his father's fault, And long hereafter say unto his child, 'What my great-grandfather and grandsire got My careless father fondly gave away'? Ah, what a shame were this!   Look on the boy; And let his manly face, which promiseth Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
This Davy serves you for good uses; he is your serving-man and your husband.
You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know, It is not Csar's natural vice to hate Our great competitor: from Alexandria This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes The lamps of night in revel; is not more manlike Than Cleopatra; nor the queen of Ptolemy More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or Vouchsafed to think he had partners: you shall find there A man who is the abstract of all faults That all men follow.
My lord, my lord,--
Emmanuel.
 for he hath greatest cause.
Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple true judgement; or would you have me speak after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
He is fled, my lord, and all his powers do yield; And humbly thus, with halters on their necks, Expect your highness' doom, of life or death.
The day begins to break, and night is fled, Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth. Here sound retreat, and cease our hot pursuit.
By my troth, I care not; a man can die but once: we owe God a death: I'll ne'er bear a base mind: an't be my destiny, so; an't benot, so: no man is too good to serve's prince; and let it go which way it will, he that dies this year is quit for the next.
If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle The heart of Antony, Octavia is A blessed lottery to him.
She lives, Master Shallow.
I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom? Why, for my king: tush, that's a wooden thing!
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords; And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
This is his tent; and see where stand his guard. Courage, my masters! honour now or never! But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
To hold you in perpetual amity, To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts With an unslipping knot, take Antony Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims No worse a husband than the best of men; Whose virtue and whose general graces speak That which none else can utter. By this marriage, All little jealousies, which now seem great, And all great fears, which now import their dangers, Would then be nothing: truths would be tales, Where now half tales be truths: her love to both Would, each to other and all loves to both, Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke; For 'tis a studied, not a present thought, By duty ruminated.
Come, get you down stairs.
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.   What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they would yield us but the superfluity, while it were wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely; but they think we are too dear: the leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an inventory to particularize their abundance; our sufferance is a gain to them. Let us revenge this with our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
Sirra Jew, as you love your life send me  five hundred  500   var:#one hundred] 100#  var:#one hundred] a hundred M, Ri#  crowns, and give the Bearer  one hundred  a hundred  100  . Tell him I must hav't.
Who ever saw the like! what men have I! Dogs! cowards! dastards!   I would ne'er have fled, But that they left me 'midst my enemies.

We are time's subjects, and time bids be gone.
What are they that fly there?
She is pistol-proof, sir; you shall hardly offend her.
'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried neat's tongue, you bull's pizzle, you stock-fish!   O for breath to utter what is like thee! you tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bowcase,  you vile standing-tuck,
What's your highness' pleasure ?
There's enough to make us all.
We mourn in black: why mourn we not in blood? Henry is dead and never shall revive: Upon a wooden coffin we attend, And death's dishonourable victory We with our stately presence glorify, Like captives bound to a triumphant car. What! shall we curse the planets of mishap That plotted thus our glory's overthrow? Or shall we think the subtle-witted French Conjurers and sorcerers, that afraid of him By magic verses have contrived his end?
Be merry, Master Bardolph; and, my little soldier there, be merry.
It may not be.
Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command The devil.
Weep not, sweet queen; for trickling tears are vain.
Nay, by God, soft; I know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.
What, is the king encamped?
Wait close; I will not see him.
Good morrow, Ned.
Why, Clarence, to myself.
No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf; So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece And next his throat unto the butcher's knife. What scene of death hath Roscius now   to act?
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey; For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me: I must thank him only, Lest my remembrance suffer ill report; At heel of that, defy him.
Traitors have never other company. But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
So I say.
The commons hath thou rack'd; the clergy's bags Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
Ah, what a sign it is of evil life, Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books. 
Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal! what a brawling dost thou keep!
We two, and 'twas never knowne, nor never shall  be  But   for me.
Madam, the king is old enough himself To give his censure: these are no women's matters. Queen. If he be old enough, what needs your grace To be protector of his excellence?
And as for these whose ransom we have set, It is our pleasure one of them depart: Therefore come you with us and let him go. Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK'S body. 
He is not his craft's master; he doth not do it right. I remember at Mile-end Green, when I lay at Clement's Inn,--I was then Sir Dagonet in Arthur's show,-there was a little quiver fellow, and a' would manage you his piece thus; and a' would about and about, and come you in and come you in: 'rah, tah, tah,' would a' say; 'bounce' would a' say; and away again would a' go, and again would a' come: I shall ne'er see such a fellow,
Be it his pleasure.
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause, And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks. Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen, That led calm Henry, though he were a king, As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust, Command an argosy to stem the waves. But think you, my lords, that Clifford fled with them?
Where's the roll? where's the roll? where's the roll?   Let me see, let me see, let me see. So, so, so, so, so, so, so: yea, marry, sir: Ralph Mouldy!   Let them appear as I call; let them do so, let them do so. Let me see; where is Mouldy?
All happiness unto my lord the king! Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue! What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
I prithee, lend me thy lantern, to see my gelding in the stable.
I came yonder from a great supper: the prince your brother is royally entertained by Leonato: and I can give you intelligence of an intended marriage.
The miserable change now at my end Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts In feeding them with those my former fortunes Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world, The noblest; and do now not basely die Not cowardly put off my helmet to My countryman,a Roman by a Roman Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going; I can no more.
But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes, And you, forsooth, had the good duke to keep: 'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend; And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
Is thy name Colevile?
Where's Antony?
But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
We left the prince my brother here, my liege, Who undertook to sit and watch by you.
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st, Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit. To say the truth, so Judas kiss'd his master, And cried 'all hail!' when as he meant all harm.
My gracious lords, to add to your laments, Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse, I must inform you of a dismal fight Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
I will be   treble-sinew'd, hearted, breathed, And fight maliciously: for when mine hours Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth, And send to darkness all that stop me. Come, Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more; Let's mock the midnight bell.
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
What is it, my good friends?
Yea, and to tickle our noses with spear-grass to make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments with it and swear it was the blood of true men. I did that I did not this seven year before, I blushed to hear his monstrous devices.
Signior?
I cry you mercy.
I noted her not; but I looked on her.
Oh twill corrupt the water, and the water the fish, and  by   the var:#eate] cate (<I>doubful</I>)#  fish our selves when we  eate  cate  them.
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not bate thee a scruple.
And how do you?
I am bound to thee, reverend Feeble. Who is next?
The heavens have thought well on thee, Lafeu, To bring forth this discovery.   Seek these suitors: Go speedily and bring again the count. I am afeared the life of Helen, lady, Was foully snatch'd.
Fie on ambition! fie on myself, that have a sword, and yet am ready to famish! These five days have I hid me in these woods and durst not peep out, for all the country is laid for me; but now am I so hungry that if I might have a lease of my life for a thousand years I could stay no longer. Wherefore, on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to see if I can eat grass, or pick a sallet another while, which is not amiss to cool a man's stomach this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet' was born to do me good: for many a time, but for a sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown bill; and many a time, when   I have been dry and bravely marching, it hath served me instead of a quart pot to drink in; and now the word 'sallet' must serve me to feed on.
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
They say miracles are past; and we have our philosophical persons, to make modern  and familiar, things supernatural and causeless. Hence it is that we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge, when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear.
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose. Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
So, two more already.
Give me pardon, sir: if, sir, you come with news from the court, I take it there's but two ways, either to utter them, or to conceal  them. I am, sir, under the king, in some authority.

I know that; but I would have thee hence, and here again. wonder that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at such shallow follies in others, become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love: and such a man is Claudio. I have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife; and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe: I have known when he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a good armor; and now will he lie ten nights awake, carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and now is he turned orthography; his words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not: I will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace.   Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'11 never cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what color it please God. Ha! the prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the arbor. [Withdraws.  Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO. 
Are you meditating on virginity?
Where dwellest thou?
Sweet earl, divorce not wisdom from your honor.
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
I am call'd Dercetas; Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy Best to be served: whilst he stood up and spoke, He was my master; and I wore my life To spend upon his haters. If thou please To take me to thee, as I was to him I'll be to Csar; if thou pleasest not, I yield thee up my life.
That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true; But how he died God knows, not Henry: Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse, And comment then upon his sudden death.
Drink some wine ere you go: fare you well.
I am alone the villain of the earth, And feel I am so most. O Antony, Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid My better service, when my turpitude Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart: If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean Shall outstrike thought: but thought will do't, I feel. I fight against thee! No: I will go seek Some ditch wherein to die; the foul'st best fits My latter part of life.
Tut, holy Joan was his defensive guard.
If Somerset be unworthy of the place, Let York be regent; I will yield to him.
Very mush, Mounsier, you no be his man  ?  . 
Nay, 'tis most credible; we here receive it A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria, With caution that the Florentine will move us For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend Prejudicates the business and would seem To have us make denial.
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons, hear me speak but this.
I am full sorry That he approves the common liar, who Thus speaks of him at Rome: but I will hope Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!
O, for the love of laughter, hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch off his drum in any hand.
They have made him drink alms-drink.
Farewell.
So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on.
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly; yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown from man to dragon: he has wings; he is more than a creeping thing.
I pray you, take me up, and bear me hence Into some other chamber: softly, pray.
We cannot afford you so.
Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is? how giddily a' turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty?   sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers in the reeky painting, sometime like god Bel's priests in the old church-window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves For a fair victory.
'Tis well blown, lads: This morning, like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note, begins betimes. So, so; come, give me that: this way; well said. Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me: This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable And worthy shameful check it were, to stand On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight, Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu. Exeunt Antony, Eros, Captains, and Soldiers. 
God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burned. How now, Dame Parlet the hen! have you inquired yet who picked my pocket?
Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone: This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York; And   this the hand that slew   thy brother Rutland; And here's the heart that triumphs in their death And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother To execute the like upon thyself; And so, have at thee! Warwick comes;  Clifford flies. 
We'll set thy statue in some holy place. And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint: Employ thee then, sweet virgin, for our good.
And furthermore, we'll have the Lord Say's head for selling the dukedom of Maine.
He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thus accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
My life, sir, in any case: not that I am afraid to die; but that, my offences being many, I would repent out the remainder of nature: let me live, sir, in a dungeon, i' the stocks, or any where, so I may live.
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship present at his examination: if he do not, for the promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the intelligence in his power against you, and that with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never trust my judgement in any thing.
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name Must be digested, give a favour from you To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter, That she may quickly come. And every hair that 's on't, Helen, that's dead, Was a sweet creature: such a ring as this, The last that e'er I took her leave at court, I saw upon her finger.
I'll send some holy bishop to entreat; For God forbid so many simple souls Should perish by the sword! And I myself, Rather than a bloody war shall cut them short, Will parley with Jack Cade their general: But stay, I'll read it over once again.
Urge it no more; lest that, instead of words, I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger As shall revenge his death before I stir.
Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
In both your armies there is many a soul Shall pay full dearly for this encounter, If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew, The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world In praise of Henry Percy: by my hopes, This present enterprise set off his head, I do not think a braver gentleman, More active-valiant or more valiant-young, More daring or more bold, is now alive To grace this latter age with noble deeds. For my part, I may speak it to my shame, I have a truant been to chivalry; And so I hear he doth account me too; Yet this before my father's majesty- I am content that he shall take the odds Of his great name and estimation, And will, to save the blood on either side, Try fortune with him in a single fight.
Go, my lord, And let our army be discharged too. And, good my lord, so please you, let our trains March by us, that we may peruse the men We should have coped withal.
So, lie thou there; For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign, The Castle in Saint Alban's, Somerset Hath made the wizard famous in his death. Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still: Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill. Fight: excursions.  Enter KING, QUEEN,
and others. 
One of them   is well known, my gracious lord, A gross fat man.
Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee; Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
A foutre for thine office! Sir John, thy tender lambkin now is king; Harry the Fifth's the man. I speak the truth: When Pistol lies, do this; and fig me, like The bragging Spaniard.
What say'st thou, my lady?
I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the age of two and twenty or thereabouts!   I am   heinously   unprovided. Well, God be thanked for these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I laud them, I praise them.
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine, I'd have them whipped; or I would send them to the Turk to make eunuchs of.
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
They tell thee true.
I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look, I promise thee.
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear; For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all. Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee, That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
What's thy passion ?
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
Good, my lord, The reasons of our state I cannot yield, But like a common and an outward man, That the great figure of a council frames By self-unable motion: therefore dare not Say what I think of it, since I have found Myself in my incertain grounds to fail As often as I guess'd.
Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair praise and too little for a great praise: only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other than she is, she were unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, I do not like her.
And shall do so ever, though I took him at's prayers.   Fare you well, my lord; and believe this of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes.   Trust him not in matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of them tame, and know their natures.   Farewell, monsieur: I have spoken better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?
See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend; The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
Do you hear, masters ? do you  hear?
I think it is good morrow, is it not?
Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king. LAFEU and PAROLLES retire. 
True, madam, none at all: what call you this? Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close, And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us. Stafford, take her to thee. We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming. All, away! [Exeunt guard with Jourdain, Southwell, &c. 
A miracle! a miracle!
My lords, at once: the care you have of us, To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot, Is worthy praise: but, shall I speak my conscience, Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent From meaning treason to our royal person As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove: The duke is virtuous, mild and too well given To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out; And therefore comes my brother Montague. Attend me, lords. The proud insulting queen, With Clifford and the haught Northumberland, And of their feather many moe proud birds, Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax. He swore consent to your succession, His oath enrolled in the parliament; And now to London all the crew are gone, To frustrate both his oath and what beside May make against the house of Lancaster. Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong: Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself, With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March, Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure, Will but amount to five and twenty thousand, Why, Via! to London will we march amain, And once again bestride our foaming steeds, And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!' But never once again turn back and fly.
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
How, my love !
To say the truth, it is your policy To save your subjects from such massacre And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen By our proceeding in hostility; And therefore take this compact of a truce, Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
To be relinquished of the artists,--
This bottle makes an angel.
He is both king and Duke of Lancaster; And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at him; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his tongue speaks.
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick? And when came George from Burgundy to England?
I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh; And 'tis no marvel he is so humorous. By 'r lady, he is a good musician.
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and a fig for Peter!
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved, Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
I shall be, if I claim by open war.
Right; so I say.
Then fare you well, for I will hence again: I came to serve a king and not a duke. Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
Swallows have built In Cleopatra's sails their nests: the augurers Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly, And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony Is valiant, and dejected; and, by starts, His fretted fortunes give him hope, and fear, Of what he has, and has not. Re-enter ANTONY. 
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole; bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we are now to examination these men.
What a slave's this?   The Governour feeds not as I doe.
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
Now will I shew my selfe to have more of the Serpent   then  Then  the Dove; that is, more knave than foole.
Let us on, And publish the occasion of our arms. The commonwealth is sick of their own choice; Their over-greedy love hath surfeited: An habitation giddy and unsure Hath he that buildeth on the vulgar heart. O thou fond many, with what loud applause Didst thou beat heaven with blessing Bolingbroke, Before he was what thou wouldst have him be! And being now trimm'd in thine own desires, Thou, beastly feeder, art so full of him, That thou provokest thyself to cast him up. So, so, thou common dog, didst thou disgorge Thy glutton bosom of the royal Richard; And now thou wouldst eat thy dead vomit up, And howl'st to find it. What trust is in these times? They that, when Richard lived, would have him die, Are now become enamour'd on his grave: Thou, that threw'st dust upon his goodly head When through proud London he came sighing on After the admired heels of Bolingbroke, Criest now 'O earth, yield us that king again, And take thou this!' O thoughts of men accursed! Past and to come seems best; things present worst.
What! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?
A miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts. Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take thee for pity.
I will, my lord, so please his majesty.
Go to, I know you well enough.
I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard, And therefore to revenge it, shalt thou die; And so should these, if I might have any will.
Your good worship is welcome.
For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with the spirit of putting down kings and princes,--Command silence.
That you will take your instant leave o' the king, And make this haste as your own good proceeding, Strengthen'd with what apology you think May make it probable need.
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
This blot that they object against your house Shall be wiped out in the next parliament Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester; And if thou be not then created York, I will not live to be accounted Warwick. Meantime, in signal of my love to thee, Against proud Somerset and William Pole, Will I upon thy party wear this rose: And here I prophesy: this brawl to-day, Grown to this faction in the Temple-garden, Shall send between the red rose and the white A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath bestowed much honor on a young Florentine called Claudio.
Is Csar with Antonius prized so slight ?
Health and long life to you, Master Silence.
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king, Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
Come.
The king is kind; and well we know the king Knows at what time to promise, when to pay. My father and my uncle and myself Did give him that same royalty he wears; And when he was not six and twenty strong Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low, A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home, My father gave him welcome to the shore; And when he heard him swear and vow to God He came but to be Duke of Lancaster, To sue his livery and beg his peace, With tears of innocency and terms of zeal, My father, in kind heart and pity moved, Swore him assistance and perform'd it too. Now when the lords and barons of the realm Perceived Northumberland did lean to him, The more and less came in with cap and knee; Met him in boroughs, cities, villages, Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes, Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths, Gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him Even at the heels in golden multitudes. He presently, as greatness knows itself, Steps me a little higher than his vow Made to my father, while his blood was poor, Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh; And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform Some certain edicts and some strait decrees That lie too heavy on the commonwealth, Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep Over his country's wrongs; and by this face, This seeming brow of justice, did he win The hearts of all that he did angle for; Proceeded further; cut me off the heads Of all the favourites that the absent king In deputation left behind him here, When he was personal in the Irish war.
Not much commendation to them.
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
This last day was A shrewd one to's.
Far truer spoke than meant: I lose, indeed; Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false! And well such losers may have leave to speak.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs be out of all compass, out of all reasonable compass, Sir John.
That can I witness; and a fouler fact Did never traitor in the land commit.
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
After them! nay, before them, if we can. Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day: Saint Alban's battle won by famous York Shall be eternized in all age to come. Sound drums and trumpets, and to London all: And more such days as these to us befall!
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship. Say thy prayers, and farewell.
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
The gods withhold me! Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts, Though enemy, lost aim, and could not ?
Who, I rob? I a thief? not I, by my faith.
What she says I'll confirm; we'll fight it out.
Fulvia is dead.
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of Moor-ditch?
You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my sworn brother, the people, to learn a dearer estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice is rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practice the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man and give it bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you, I may be consul.
Come, and get thee a sword, though made of lath: they have been up these two days.
And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear And tread it under foot with all contempt, Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear.
Why did you leave me here alone, my lords?
Are you so brave?   I'll have you talked with anon.
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and that my lord your son was upon his return home, I moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority of them both, his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did first propose: his highness hath promised me to do it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath conceived against your son, there is no fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?
Ay, madam.
To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.
What, ostler I come away and be hanged! come away.
I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest enough without a badge of bitterness.
Nay, master, be rul'd by me a little; so, let him leane var:#of] for Ox#  upon his staffe; excellent, he stands as if he were begging  of  for   Bacon.
Nay, but, fellow, fellow
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words? Well, I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd: They shall have wars and pay for their presumption. But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown In following this usurping Henry.
I am here already, sir.
All is whole; Not one word more of the consumed time. Let's take the instant by the forward top; For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time Steals ere we can effect them. You remember The daughter of this lord?
Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.
I, and the rest too, or else
Methought this staff, mine officebadge in court, Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot, But, as I think, it was by the cardinal; And on the pieces of the broken wand Were placed the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset, And William de la Pole, first duke of Suffolk. This was my dream: what it doth bode, God knows.
I pray, mistris, wil you answer me  to   but  one question?
Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be hanged: Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and yet our horse not packed. What, ostler!
Out, ye rogue! Play out the play: I have much to say in the behalf of that Falstaff.
Gallus, go you along. To second Proculeius ?
Me thinkes he fingers very well.
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose,
As good a man as he, sir, whoe'er I am. Do ye yield, sir? or shall I sweat for you? If I do sweat, they are the drops of thy lovers, and they weep for thy death: therefore rouse up fear and trembling, and do observance  to my mercy.
Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace, for you did bring me out.
Ay, so I say.
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd: Hath the late overthrow wrought this offence? Be not dismay'd, for succour is at hand: A holy maid hither with me I bring, Which by a vision sent to her from heaven Ordained is to raise this tedious siege And drive the English forth the bounds of France. The spirit of deep prophecy she hath, Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome: What's past and what's to come she can descry. Speak, shall I call her in?   Believe my words, For they are certain and unfallible.
Let there be no noise made, my gentle friends; Unless some dull and favorable hand Will whisper music to my weary spirit.
Anon, sir.   Pray stay a little, my lord.
What think you, Sir John? a good-limbed  fellow; young, strong, and of good friends.
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
Wherefore do I this? so the question stands. Briefly to this end: we are all diseased, And with our surfeiting and wanton hours Have brought ourselves into a burning fever, And we must bleed for it; of which disease Our late king, Richard, being infected, died. But, my most noble Lord of Westmoreland, I take not on me here as a physician, Nor do I as an enemy to peace Troop in the throngs of military men; But rather show awhile like fearful war, To diet rank minds sick of happiness And purge the obstructions which begin to stop Our very veins of life.   Hear me more plainly. I have in equal balance justly weigh'd What wrongs our arms may do, what wrongs we suffer, And find our griefs heavier than our offences. We see which way the stream of time doth run, And are enforced from our most quiet there By the rough torrent of occasion; And have the summary of all our griefs, When time shall serve, to show in articles; Which long ere this we offer'd to the king, And might by no suit gain our audience: When we are wrong'd and would unfold our griefs, We are denied access unto his person Even by those men that most have done us wrong. The dangers of the days but newly gone, Whose memory is written on the earth With yet appearing blood, and the examples Of every minute's instance, present now, Hath put us in these ill-beseeming arms, Not to break peace or any branch of it, But to establish here a peace indeed, Concurring both in name and quality.
Fond man, remember that thou hast a wife; Then how can Margaret be thy paramour?
No, my most wronged sister; Cleopatra Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire Up to a whore; who now are levying The kings o' the earth for war; he hath assembled Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, king Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas; King Malchus of Arabia; King of Pont; Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas, The kings of Mede and Lycaonia, With a more larger list of sceptres.
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
But why, why, why ?
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
No, I'll be sworn; I make as good use of it as many a man doth of a Death's- head or a memento mori : I never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire and Dives that lived in purple; for there he is in his robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way given to virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but thou art altogether given over; and wert indeed, but for the light in thy face, the son of utter darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill  in the night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire, there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light! Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two and thirty years; God reward me for it!
The heavens thee guard and keep, most royal imp of fame!
I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
What shall I say you are?
Therefore be merry, coz; since sudden sorrow Serves to say thus, 'some good thing comes tomorrow.'
First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
Doubtless he would have made a noblee knight: See, where he lies inhearsed in the arms Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
Not so, not so; I know you could not lack, I am certain on't, Very necessity of this thought, that I, Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought, Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife, I would you had her spirit in such another: The third o' the world is yours; which with a snaffle You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester; For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
O the sweetest face that ever I beheld! I know she is a Curtezane by her attire: now would I give a hundred of the Jewes var:#such] snch#  Crownes that I had  such  snch  a Concubine.
A messenger from Csar.
Good cousins, be advised; stir not to-night.
Honest Bardolph, welcome: if thou wantest any thing, and wilt not call, beshrew thy heart. Welcome, my little tiny thief to Master Bardolph, and to all the cavaleros about London.
He greets me well, sir. I knew him a good backsword man. How doth the good knight? may I ask how my lady his wife doth ?
This is the man.
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you, when you have pushed out your gates the very defender of them, and, in a violent popular ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to front his revenges with the easy groans of old women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as you seem to be?   Can you think to blow out the intended fire your city is ready to flame in, with such weak breath as this?   No, you are deceived; therefore, back to Rome, and prepare for your execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn you out of reprieve and pardon.
The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords. How irksome is this music to my heart! When such strings jar, what hope of harmony? I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
Most certain. Sister, welcome: pray you, Be ever known to patience: my dear'st sister !
Shall I set down your answer so?
But, in my mind, that were no policy: The king will labour still to save his life, The commons haply rise, to save his life; And yet we have but trivial argument, More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging-wood, Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!
That shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman hath no lean wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy as a gib cat or a lugged bear.
What say you of Kent?
No, no, I am but shadow of myself: You are deceived, my substance is not here; For what you see is but the smallest part And least proportion of humanity: I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here, It is of such a spacious lofty pitch, Your roof were not sufficient to contain 't.
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
Well, what worst ?
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month; and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fear the shot here; here's no scoring  but upon the pate. Soft! who are you? Sir Walter Blunt: there's an honour for you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as molten lead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! I need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have led my ragamuffins where they are peppered; there's not three of my hundred and fifty left alive; and they are for the town's end, to beg during life. But who comes here?
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
Yield, my lord protector; yield, Winchester; Except you mean with obstinate repulse To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm. You see what mischief and what murder too Hath been enacted through your enmity; Then be at peace, except ye thirst for blood.
'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
How, how, I pray you? You amaze me: I would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
Here, take my ring: My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine, And I'll be bid by thee.
How swift he runnes.
Yea, Davy. I will use him well: a friend i' the court is better than a penny in purse. Use his men well, Davy; for they are arrant knaves, and will backbite.
'Zounds, will they not rob us?
Please it your grace to be advertised The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland, And with a puissant and a mighty power Of gallowglasses and stout kerns Is marching hitherward in proud array, And still proclaimeth, as he comes along, His arms are only to remove from thee The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms a traitor.
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood, Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.
What say'st thou ?
For my life, to break with him about Beatrice.
The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible Benedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set them in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write 'Here is a good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign 'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
Care for us!   True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act established against the rich, and provide more piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear us.
Sir John, Sir John, I am well acquainted with your manner of wrenching the true cause the false way. It is not a confident brow, nor the throng of words that come with such more than impudent sauciness from you, can thrust me from a level consideration: you have, as it appears to me, practised upon the easy-yielding spirit of this woman, and made her serve your uses both in purse and in person.
A   thousand pound, Hal! a million: thy love is worth a million: thou owest me thy love.
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery of honour; so belike is that.
You are well encounter'd here, my cousin Mowbray: Good day to you, gentle lord archbishop; And so to you, Lord Hastings, and to all. My Lord of York, it better show'd with you When that your flock, assembled by the bell, Encircled you to hear with reverence Your exposition on the holy text Than now to see you here an iron man, Cheering a rout of rebels with your drum, Turning the word to sword and life to death. That man that sits within a monarch's heart, And ripens in the sunshine of his favor, Would he abuse the countenance of the king, Alack, what mischiefs might he set abrooch In shadow of such greatness!   With you, lord bishop, It is even so. Who hath not heard it spoken How deep you were within the books of God? To us the speaker in his parliament; To us the imagined voice of God himself; The very opener and intelligencer Between the grace, the sanctities of heaven And our dull workings. O, who shall believe But you misuse the reverence of your place, Employ the countenance and grace of heaven, As a false favorite doth his prince's name, In deeds dishonorable? You have ta'en up, Under the counterfeited zeal of God, The subjects of his substitute, my father, And both against the peace of heaven and him Have here up-swarm'd them.
Both which, master constable,
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on him?
Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled by your father.
No; I will sit and watch here by the king. Why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow, Being so troublesome a bedfellow? O polish'd perturbation! golden care! That keep'st the ports of slumber open wide To many a watchful night! sleep with it now! Yet not so sound and half so deeply sweet As he whose brow with homely biggen bound Snores out the watch of night. O majesty! When thou dost pinch thy bearer, thou dost sit Like a rich armor worn in heat of day, That scalds with safety. By his gates of breath There lies a downy feather which stirs not: Did he suspire, that light and weightless down Perforce must move. My gracious lord! my father! This sleep is sound indeed; this is a sleep That from this golden rigol hath divorced So many English kings. Thy due from me Is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood, Which nature, love, and filial tenderness, Shall, O dear father, pay thee plenteously: My due from thee is this imperial crown, Which, as immediate from thy place and blood, Derives itself to me. Lo, here it sits, Which God shall guard: and put the world's whole strength
Into one giant arm, it shall not force
This lineal honor from me: this from thee
Will I to mine leave, as 'tis left to me. [Exit.  
He looks well on 't.
Let me alone, I'le use him in his kinde.
Now, good Lafeu, Bring in the admiration; that we with thee May spend our wonder too, or take off thine By wondering how thou took'st it.
Pleaseth your grace to answer them directly How far forth you do like their articles.
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings. Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day So dreadful will not be as was his sight. The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought: The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right According to our threefold order ta'en?
And  ye  you  did but know how she loves you, Sir.
O, temperance, lady!
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France, Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth! How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex To triumph, like an Amazonian trull, Upon their woes whom fortune captivates! But that thy face is, visard-like, unchanging, Made impudent with use of evil deeds, I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush. To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived, Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless. Thy father bears the type of King of Naples, Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem, Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman. Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult? It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen, Unless the adage must be verified, That beggars mounted run their horse to death. 'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud; But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small: 'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired; The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at: 'Tis government that makes them seem divine; The want thereof makes thee abominable: Thou art as opposite to every good As the Antipodes are unto us, Or as the south to the septentrion. O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide! How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child, To bid the father wipe his eyes withal, And yet be seen to bear a woman's face? Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible; Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless. Bid'st thou me rage? why, now thou hast thy wish: Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will: For raging wind blows up incessant showers, And when the rage allays, the rain begins. These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies: And every drop cries vengeance for his death, 'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false Frenchwoman.
Smile, gentle heaven! or strike, ungentle death! For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
Thereafter as they be: a score of good ewes may be worth ten pounds.
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our purchase, as I am a true man.
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves thrive long under her?   There's a quart d'ecu for you: let the justices make you and fortune friends: I am for other business.
One good woman in ten, madam; which is a purifying o' the song: would God would serve the world so all the year; we'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman, if I were the parson.  One in ten, quoth a'!   An we might have a good woman born but one every blazing star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery well: a man may draw his heart out, ere a' pluck one.
To London, all in post; and, as I guess, To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
He dreams: I know they are in Rome together, Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love, Salt Cleopatra, soften thy waned lip! Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both ! Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts, Keep his brain fuming; Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite; That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honor Even till a Lethe'd dulness! How now, Varrius!
No, nor you shall not.
No.
Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting redemption for this.
I'll go to the tower with all the haste I can, To view the artillery and munition; And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say ? Be jolly, lords.
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
What, doth she swoon? use means for her recovery.
And here I stand: judge, my masters.
Then, brother John of Lancaster, to you This honourable bounty shall belong: Go to the Douglas, and deliver him Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free: His valour shown upon our crests to-day Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
Yea, brother of Clarence, art thou here too? Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down. Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance, Of thee thyself and all thy complices, Edward will always bear himself as king: Though fortune's malice overthrow my state, My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
Sir, look well to my husband's house; and-
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance Would more have strengthen'd this our commonwealth 'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd, Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be king, And bashful Henry deposed, whose cowardice Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Who, queasy with his insolence Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single life, to make thee a double-dealer; which, out of question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look exceedingly narrowly to thee.
I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with his eye; talks like a knell, and his hum is a battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but eternity and a heaven to throne in.
How camest thou so?
Look, whether the withered elder hath not his poll clawed like a parrot.
A' shall answer it. Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of short-legged hens, a joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook.
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would use me with estimation.
Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech  you to let me have home with me.
Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the ruff and sing; ask questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
Father of Warwick, know you what this means? Look here, I throw my infamy at thee: I will not ruinate my father's house, Who gave his blood to lime the stones together, And set up Lancaster. Why, trow'st thou, Warwick, That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt; unnatural, To bend the fatal instruments of war Against his brother and his lawful king? Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath: To keep that oath were more impiety Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter. I am so sorry for my trespass made That, to deserve well at my brother's hands, I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe, With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee-- As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad-- To plague thee for thy foul misleading me. And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee, And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks. Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends: And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults, For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
A dower, my lords! disgrace not so your king, That he should be so abject, base and poor, To choose for wealth and not for perfect love, Henry is able to enrich his queen And not to seek a queen to make him rich: So worthless peasants bargain for their wives, As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse. Marriage is a matter of more worth Than to be dealt in by attorneyship; Not whom we will, but whom his grace affects, Must be companion of his nuptial bed: And therefore, lords, since he affects her most, It most of all these reasons bindeth us. In our opinions she should be preferr'd. For what is wedlock forced but a hell, An age of discord and continual strife? Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss, And is a pattern of celestial peace. Whom should we match with Henry, being a king, But Margaret, that is daughter to a king? Her peerless feature, joined with her birth, Approves her fit for none but for a king: Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit, More than in women commonly is seen, Will answer our hope in issue of a king; For Henry, son unto a conqueror, Is likely to beget more conquerors, If with a lady of so high resolve As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love. Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me That Margaret shall be queen, and none but she.
Where's that?
Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
But being charged, we will be still by land, Which, as I take't, we shall; for his best force Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales, And hold our best advantage.
Find him, and bring him hither.
I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his mother shall bring from him: there is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger; that shall our poor city find: and all this is long of you.
Go, good Lord Hastings, And, ere they be dismiss'd, let them march by.
My honourable lords, health to you all! Sad tidings I bring to you out of France, Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture: Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans, Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
O, twice my father, twice am I thy son The life thou gavest me first was lost and done, Till with thy warlike sword, despite of fate, To my determined time thou gavest new date.
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick.
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far: Csar himself has work, and our oppression Exceeds what we expected. Alarums.  Enter ANTONY and SCARUS wounded. 
What! he did not?
Fie upon 'em,  master  Mr.  , will you turne Christian, when holy Friars turne devils and murder one another.
Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished; Once by the king, and thee times thrice by thee. 'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence; A wilderness is populous enough, So Suffolk had thy heavenly company: For where thou art, there is the world itself, With every several pleasure in the world, And where thou art not, desolation. I can no more: live thou to joy thy life; Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest.
A simple countryman, that brought her figs: This was his basket.
The beds i' the east are soft; and thanks to you, That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither; For I have gain'd by 't.
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
What, dost thou roar before thou art pricked ?
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began, Roused on the sudden from their drowsy beds, They did amongst the troops of armed men Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect And surer bind this knot of amity, The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles, A man of great authority in France, Proffers his only daughter to your grace In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
Jesus bless us!
You knew Mathias and the Governors son  ;  ,  he and I kild 'em both, and yet never touch'd 'em.
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
So we be rid of them, do with 'em what thou wilt. And now to Paris, in this conquering vein All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.
Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner, Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard Or by his foe surprised at unawares: And, as I further have to understand, Is new committed to the Bishop of York, Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
Never, never; she would always say she could not abide Master Shallow.
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
Nothing, but let him have thanks.   Demand of him  my condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
Some eight or ten.
Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem, But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart; These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart: On that advantage, bought with such a shame, To save a paltry life and slay bright fame, Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly, The coward horse that bears me fall and die! And like me to the peasant boys of France, To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance! Surely, by all the glory you have won, An if I fly, I am not Talbot's son: Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot; If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
Pole!
Uncertain life, and sure death.
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven, And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss, That I am clear from   this misdeed of Edward's, No more my king, for he dishonours me, But most himself, if he could see his shame. Did I forget that by the house of York My father came untimely to his death? Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece? Did I impale him with the regal crown? Did I put Henry from his native right? And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame? Shame on himself I for my desert is honour: And to repair my honour lost for him, I here renounce him and return to Henry. My noble queen, let former grudges pass, And henceforth I am thy true servitor: I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona And replant Henry in his former state.
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good workman, a very good tailor.
Tush, that was but his fancy, blame him not; I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
Go forward and be choked with thy ambition! And so farewell until I meet thee next.
Yea, sir.
Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in stratagem.
From Silvius, sir.
Here is a dear, a true industrious friend, Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse, Stain'd with the variation of each soil Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours; And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news. The Earl of Douglas is discomfited: Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty knights, Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took Mordake the Earl of Fife, and eldest son To beaten Douglas; and the Earl of Athol, Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith: And is not this an honourable spoil? A gallant prize? ha, cousin, is it not?
Good Master Silence, it well befits you should be of the peace.
I have a gammon of bacon and two razes of ginger, to be delivered as far as Charing-cross.
Forbear me. There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it: What our contempt doth often hurl from us, We wish it ours again; the present pleasure, By revolution lowering, does become The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone; The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on. I must from this enchanting queen break off: Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know, My idleness doth hatch. How now! Enobarbus! Re-enter ENOBARBUS. 
Thou antic death, which laugh'st us here to scorn, Anon, from thy insulting tyranny, Coupled in bonds of perpetuity, Two Talbots, winged through the lither sky, In thy despite shall 'scape mortality. O thou, whose wounds become hard-favour'd death, Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath! Brave death by speaking, whether he will or no; Imagine him a Frenchman, and thy foe. Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say, Had death been French, then death had died to-day. Come, come and lay him in his father's arms: My spirit can no longer bear these harms. Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have, Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave. Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD, LA PUCELLE, and forces. 
Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides, So many mermaids, tended her i' the eyes, And made their bends adornings: at the helm A seeming mermaid steers: the silken tackle Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands, That yarely frame the office. From the barge A strange invisible perfume hits the sense Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast Her people out upon her; and Antony, Enthroned i' the market-place, did sit alone, Whistling to the air; which, but for vacancy, Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too, And made a gap in nature.
I thank thee, Meg; these words content me much. How now! why look'st thou pale? why tremblest thou? Where is our uncle? what's the matter, Suffolk?
Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
Argo, their thread of life is spun.
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king: But Henry now shall wear the English crown, And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow. My Lord of Somerset, at my request, See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd Unto my brother, Archbishop of York. When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows, I'll follow you, and tell what answer Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him. Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York. [They lead him out forcibly. 
Yes, like enough, high-battled Csar will Unstate his happiness, and be staged to the show, Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are A parcel of their fortunes; and things outward Do draw the inward quality after them, To suffer all alike. That he should dream, Knowing all measures, the full Csar will Answer his emptiness ! Csar, thou hast subdued His judgment too.
And that is more than I will yield unto: I know I am too mean to be your queen, And yet too good to be your concubine.
It is, my lord.
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our faults whipped them not; and our crimes would despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues. How now! where's your master?
No treachery; but want of men and money. Amongst the soldiers this is muttered, That here you maintain several factions, And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought, You are disputing of your generals: One would have lingering wars with little cost; Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings; A third thinks, without expense at all, By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd. Awake, awake, English nobility! Let not sloth dim your honours new-begot: Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms; Of England's coat one half is cut away.
With all my heart.
'Tis a noble Lepidus.
Think, and die.
Yea, sir, in a pottle-pot.
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
By God's liggens, I thank thee: the knave will stick by thee, I can assure thee that. A' will not out; he is true bred.
Sir, I say to you we are none.
And for mine, sir, I will govern it.
Antony Is come into the field.
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
Here, here comes master Signior Leonato, and the Sexton too.
Ay, sir.
Thou pitied'st Rutland; I will pity thee.
Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear Of what hath come to pass: for when she saw Which never shall be foundyou did suspect She had disposed with Csar, and that your rage Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead; But, fearing since how it might work, hath sent Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come, I dread, too late.
The trust I have is in mine innocence, And therefore am I bold and resolute.
He rose against him, being his sovereign, And made him to resign his crown perforce.
I come, Master Shallow; I come, Master Shallow.
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night: Scant not my cups; and make as much of me As when mine empire was your fellow too, And suffer'd my command.
I would they 'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air; We'ld fight there too. But this it is; our foot Upon the hills adjoining to the city Shall stay with us: order for sea is given; They have put forth the haven . . . . Where their appointment we may best discover, And look on their endeavor.
For the best turn i' the bed.
See you here, sir ?
Let us go. Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here.
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth.
Away, you whoreson upright rabbit, away!
I think I told your lordship a year since, how much I am in the favor of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
Thou hast, Ventidius, that Without the which a soldier, and his sword, Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony !
Go, take their bodies hence.
Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit My fancy to your eyes: when I consider What great creation and what dole of honour Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now The praised of the king; who, so ennobled, Is as 'twere born so.
Why, I say nothing.
As well as I can, madam.
Go to: peace, Mouldy; you shall go. Mouldy, it is time you were spent.
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love, To greet mine own land with my wishful sight. No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine; Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee, Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed: No bending knee will call thee Csar now, No humble suitors press to speak for right, No, not a man comes for redress of thee; For how can I help them, and not myself?
Where died she ?
Is it so, sir ?
Not if the small come first.
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume, Thou hadst not lived to kill a son of mine. And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand, Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear, And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's, And many an orphan's water-standing eye-- Men for their sons, wives for their husbands, And orphans for their parents' timeless death-- Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born. The owl shriek'd at thy birth,--an evil sign; The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time; Dogs howl'd, and   hideous tempest shook down trees; The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top, And chattering pies in dismal discords sung. Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain, And yet brought forth less than a mother's hope, To wit, an indigested and deformed lump, Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree, Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born, To signify thou camest to bite the world: And, if the rest be true which I have heard, Thou camest--
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too: there is nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man: yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it. A villanous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack; die when thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be not forgot upon the face of the earth, then am I a shotten herring. There live not three good men unhanged in England; and one of them is fat and grows old: God help the while! a bad world, I say. I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or any thing. A plague of all cowards, I say still.
Who, he? He was some hilding fellow that had stolen The horse he rode on, and, upon my life, Spoke at a venture. Look, here comes more news.
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu: when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this very night.
If I depart from thee, I cannot live; And in thy sight to die, what were it else But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap? Here could I breathe my soul into the air, As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe Dying with mother's dug between its lips: Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes, To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth; So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul, Or I should breathe it so into thy body, And then it lived in sweet Elysium. To die by thee were but to die in jest; From thee to die were torture more than death: O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the love of Beatrice. 
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone: You go about to torture me in vain.
This shall assure my constant loyalty, That if our queen and this young prince agree, I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.
He calls me boy; and chides, as he had power To beat me out of Egypt; my messenger He hath whipp'd with rods; dares me to personal combat, Csar to Antony: let the old ruffian know I have many other ways to die; meantime Laugh at his challenge.
Carry Master Silence to bed. Master Shallow, my Lord Shallow,--be what thou wilt; I am fortune's steward-- get on thy boots: we'll ride all night. O sweet Pistol! Away, Bardolph! Pistol,  utter more to me; and withal devise something  to do thyself good. Boot, boot, Master Shallow: I know the young king is sick for me. Let us take any man's horses; the laws of England are at my commandment. Blessed are they that have been my friends; and woe to my lord chief-justice!
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup. Thou art, if thou darest be, the earthly Jove: Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips, Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
The general is content to spare thee yet; And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform Something to save thy life.
Oft have I seen a hot o'erweening cur Run back and bite, because he was withheld; Who, being suffer'd with the bear's fell paw, Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried: And such a piece of service will you do, If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not knowing what they do!
I do remember it; and here take my leave, To go about my preparation.
I will do so. My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
No.
The gates are open, let us enter too.
God save thee, my sweet boy!
Why ring not out the bells aloud throughout the town? Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires And feast and banquet in the open streets, To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used, Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
See you yond coign o' the Capitol, yond corner-stone ?
Soldiers, away with him!
Wilt thou rob this leathern jerkin, crystal-button, not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, stocking, caddis-garter, smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch 
The best wishes that can be forged in your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Yes, so please your majesty.   I did go between them, as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and of Limbo and of Furies and I know not what: yet I was in that credit with them at that time that I knew of their going to bed, and of other motions, as promising her marriage, and things which would derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not speak what I know.
We'll take your offer kindly.
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd To make me fight at land!
Thy father hath.
Will't please you hear me ?
Well, go to; we'll have no bastards live; Especially since Charles must father it.
Go, then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and Claudio, as,in love of your brother's honor, who hath made this match, and his friend's reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid,that you have discovered thus. They will scarcely believe this without trial: offer them instances; which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window, hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bring them to see this the very night before the intended wedding,for in the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be absent,and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called assurance and all the preparation overthrown.
Come, my captain knows you not.
Hang him  ,   Jew.
I see the lady hath a thing to grant, Before the king will grant her humble suit.
Fare you well, Falstaff: I, in my condition, Shall better speak of you than you deserve.
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
What think you they portend?
Away with him! and do as I command ye.
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse.
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem! And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
Woe above woe! grief more than common grief! O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds! O, pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity! The red rose and the white are on his face, The fatal colours of our striving houses: The one his purple blood right well resembles; The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth: Wither one rose, and let the other flourish; If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them. Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
Now, Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience, Is Edward your true king? for I were loath To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
When I return with victory from the field I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
The man, I do assure you, is not here; For I myself at this time have employ'd him. And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee That I will, by to-morrow dinner-time, Send him to answer thee, or any man, For any thing he shall be charged withal: And so let me entreat you leave the house.
It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.
'First demand of him how many horse the duke is strong.' What say you to that?
Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
Go with me to my chamber and advise me. I'll send her straight away: to-morrow I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
Lay out, lay out.
Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
Commit it, count.
And, for myself, most part of all this night, Within her quarter and mine own precinct I was employ'd in passing to and fro, About relieving of the sentinels: Then how or which way should they first break in?
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
O villain! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou drunkest last.
O noble emperor, do not fight by sea; Trust not to rotten planks: do you misdoubt This sword and these my wounds ? Let the Egyptians And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we Have used to conquer, standing on the earth, And fighting foot to foot.
By yea and nay, sir, I dare say my cousin William is become a good scholar: he is at Oxford still, is he not?
Under a compelling occasion, let women die; it were pity to cast them away for nothing; though, between them and a great cause, they should be esteemed nothing. Cleo patra, catching but the least noise of this, dies instantly; I have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment: I do think there is mettle in death, which commits some loving act upon her, she hath such a celerity in dying.
Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverend youth; and I praise God for you.
To thirty thousand.
I shall do't.
Well, I am school'd: good manners be your speed! Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
What's the matter?
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
Away with them to prison; and the day of combat shall be the last of the next month. Come, Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies, Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light. O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow More than my body's parting with my soul! My love and fear glued many friends to thee; And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts. Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York, The common people swarm like summer flies; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun? And who shines now but Henry's enemies? O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent That Phaethon should check thy fiery steeds, Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth! And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do, Or as thy father and his father did, Giving no ground unto the house of York, They never then had sprung like summer flies; I and ten thousand in this luckless realm Had left no mourning widows for our death; And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace. For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air? And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity? Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds; No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight: The foe is merciless, and will not pity; For at their hands I have deserved no pity. The air hath got into my deadly wounds, And much effuse of blood doth make me faint. Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest; I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast. Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE,
RICHARD, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers. 
Had I thy brethren here, their lives and thine Were not revenge sufficient for me; No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves And hung their rotten coffins up in chains, It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart. The sight of any of the house of York Is as a fury to torment my soul; And till I root out their accursed line And leave not one alive, I live in hell. Therefore--
Come, let's away.
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
You shall ha't, worthy sir.
Well, I am loath to gall a new-healed wound: your day's service at Shrews- bury hath a little gilded over your night's exploit on Gad's-hill: you may thank the unquiet time for your quiet o'er-posting that action.
Thou dost give me flattering busses.
My lord, you do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract: If once it be neglected, ten to one We shall not find like opportunity.
And when the king comes, offer him no violence, Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
Ay, my good lady, he.
A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes! A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear: Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king ?
Come on, then; He may recover yet.
I will give thee for it a thousand pound: ask me when thou wilt, and thou shalt have it.
It shall suffice, sir.
Then is my sovereign slain?
That he should draw his several strengths together And come against us in full puissance, Need not be dreaded.
Brother, the time and case requireth haste: Your horse stands ready at the park-corner.
How now! whose mare's dead? what's the matter?
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a thousand ducats.
Your speech is passion: But, pray you, stir no embers up. Here comes The noble Antony.
Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump, As crooked in thy manners as thy shape!
No, if rightly taken, halter. Here comes lean Jack, here comes bare-bone. How now, my sweet creature of bombast! How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Is it even so?   Nay, then, I see our wars Will turn into a peaceful comic sport, When ladies crave to be encounter'd with. You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
Away, you rascally Altha's dream, away!
Were it good, think you?
But wherefore stay we? 'tis no time to talk.

No further, sir.
You were best to go to bed and dream again, To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
I had a wound here that was like a T, But now 'tis made an H.
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue: Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome; Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase; and taunt my faults With such full license as both truth and malice Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds, When our quick minds lie still; and our ills told us Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
Reason; because they then less need one another. The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
My lord, our army is dispersed already; Like youthful steers unyoked, they take their courses East, west, north, south; or, like a school broke up, Each hurries toward his home and sportingplace.
Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon; Whither I am going.
This had been cheerful after victory.
Well, he shall be beheaded for it ten times. Ah, thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! now art thou within pointblank of our jurisdiction regal. What canst thou answer to my majesty for giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu, the dauphin of France?   Be it known unto thee by these presence, even the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I am the besom that must sweep the court clean of such filth as thou art. Thou hast most traitorously corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a grammar school: and whereas, before, our forefathers had no other books but the score and the tally, thou hast caused printing to be used, and, contrary to the king, his crown and dignity, thou hast built a paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and a verb, and such abominable words as no Christian ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed justices of peace, to call poor men before them about matters they were not able to answer. Moreover, thou hast put them in prison; and because they could not read, thou hast hanged them; when, indeed, only for that cause they have been most worthy to live. Thou dost ride in a footcloth, dost thou not?
Am I not protector, saucy priest?
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here Cannot be cured by words; therefore be still.
I have then sinned against his experience and transgressed against his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make us friends; I will pursue the amity.
The heat is past; follow no further now: Call in the powers, good cousin Westmoreland. Now, Falstaff, where have you been all this while? When every thing is ended, then you come: These tardy tricks of yours will, on my life, One time or other break some gallows' back.
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world ? That's twice.
What manner of man, an it like your majesty?
Ten, my lord.
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
Yea, my lord.
Not so, Sir Walter: we'll withdraw awhile. Go to the king; and let there be impawn'd Some surety for a safe return again, And in the morning early shall my uncle Bring him our purposes: and so farewell.
She's none of mine, my lord.
How the rogue roar'd!
It signs well, does it not ?
Hark ye: not so: in witness, take ye that.
Where is he now ?
Pray ye, sir?
We meet like men that had forgot to speak.
Grates me: the sum.
Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and do it with unwashed hands too.
I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator, Inferring arguments of mightly force. But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear That things ill-got had ever bad success? And happy always was it for that son Whose father for his hoarding went to hell? I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind; And would my father had left me no more! For all the rst is held at such a rate As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep Than in possession any jot of pleasure. Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
I thank him, that he cuts me from my tale, For I profess not talking; only this Let each man do his best: and here draw I A sword, whose temper I intend to stain With the best blood that I can meet withal In the adventure of this perilous day. Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on. Sound all the lofty instruments of war, And by that music let us all embrace; For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall A second time do such a courtesy.
Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame? Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal, Make us partakers of a little gain, That now our loss might be ten times so much?
Quarrel no more, but be prepared to know The purposes I bear; which are, or cease, As you shall give the advice. By the fire That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence Thy soldier, servant; making peace or war As thou affect'st.
All men's faces are true, what- some'er their hands are.
Shall I prick him, sir?
Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
That can hardly be, Master Shallow. Do not you grieve at this; I shall be sent for in private to him: look you, he must seem thus to the world: fear not your advancements; I will be the man yet that shall make you great.
Set me the crown upon my pillow here.
Let's speak To him.
Then Clarence is at hand; I hear his drum.
Ha, my brave emperor! Shall we dance now the Egyptian Bacchanals, And celebrate our drink ?
And yonder, Csar.
Our business is not unknown to the senate; they have had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do, which now we'll show 'em in deeds.   They say poor suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we have strong arms too.
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now: By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe, It will outrun you, father, in the end.
I think it is my Lord of Westmoreland.
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He shall be encountered with a man as good as himself: he is but a knight, is a'?
Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
I'le rather
Of Salisbury, who can report of him, That winter lion, who in rage forgets Aged contusions and all brush of time, And, like a gallant in the brow of youth, Repairs him with occasion?   This happy day Is not itself, nor have we won one foot, if Salisbury be lost.
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak: Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day, That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
He's married, madam.
He fables not; I hear the enemy: Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings. O, negligent and heedless discipline! How are we park'd and bounded in a pale, A little herd of England's timorous deer, Mazed with a yelping kennel of French curs! If we be English deer, be then in blood; Not rascal-like, to fall down with a pinch, But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags, Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel And make the cowards stand aloof at bay: Sell every man his life as dear as mine, And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends. God and Saint George, Talbot and England's right, Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!
'Twere best he did.
I mind to tell him plainly what I think. Enter KING EDWARD, attended;LADY GREY, as Queen;
PEMBROKE, STAFFORD, HASTINGS, and others. 
We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of these men's bills.
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
O Lord, sir!   Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
My name is Harry Percy.
The constables have delivered her over to me; and she shall have whippingcheer  enough, I warrant her: there hath been a man or two lately killed about her.
Sirrah, you giant, what says the doctor to my water?
No, sweet Octavia, You shall hear from me still; the time shall not Out-go my thinking on you.
Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it; Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him I will subscribegentle adieus and greetings; Say that I wish he never find more cause To change a master. O, my fortunes have Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.Enobarbus !
Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him; He never did encounter with Glendower: I tell thee, He durst as well have met the devil alone As Owen Glendower for an enemy. Art thou not ashamed? But, sirrah, henceforth Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer: Send me your prisoners with the speediest means Or you shall hear in such a kind from me As will displease you. My Lord Northumberland, We license your departure with your son. Send us your prisoners, or you will hear of it.
The same Sir John, the very same. I see him break Skogan's head at the court-gate, when a' was a crack not thus high: and the very same day did I fight with one Sampson Stockfish, a fruiterer, behind Gray's Inn. Jesu, Jesu, the mad days that I have spent! and to see how many of my old acquaintance are dead!
She's impudent, my lord, And was a common gamester to the camp.
Let us, Lepidus, Not lack your company.
Well, here is my leg.
O fie, fie, fie!
Thou art not Atlas for so great a weight: And, weakling, Warwick takes his gift again; And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
Nay, come your ways; This is his majesty; say your mind to him: A traitor you do look like; but such traitors His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle, That dare leave two together; fare you well.
Why, it cannot chose but be a noble plot: And then the power of Scotland and York, To join with Mortimer, ha?
Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come, quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant, you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again: you shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
The news is true, my lord; he is descried; Csar has taken Toryne.
You must away to court, sir, presently; A dozen captains stay at door for you.
Be patient, gentle Nell; forget this grief.
Myself, as far as I could well discern For smoke and dusky vapours of the night, Am sure I scared the Dauphin and his trull, When arm in arm they both came swiftly running, Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves That could not live asunder day or night. After that things are set in order here, We'll follow them with all the power we have.
Yes, sir. Here is now the smith's note for shoeing and plough-irons.
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut But in the night or in the time of war. What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys; For Edward will defend the town and thee, And all those friends that deign to follow me. March. Enter MONTGOMERY, with drum and soldiers. 
Imagination of some great exploit Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
And the boy that I gave Falstaff: a' had him from me Christian; and look, if the fat villain have not transformed him ape. 
What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave? And you, base peasants, do ye believe him? will you needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks?   Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates, that you should leave me at the White Hart in Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out these arms till you had recovered your ancient freedom: but you are all recreants and dastards, and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Let them break your backs with burthens, take your houses over your heads, ravish your wives and daughters before your faces: for me, I will make shift for one; and so, God's curse light upon you all!
Your grace may starve perhaps before that time.
Puff! Puff in thy teeth, most recreant coward base! Sir John, I am thy Pistol and thy friend, And helter-skelter have I rode to thee, And tidings do I bring and lucky joys And golden times and happy news of price.
O young John Talbot! I did send for thee To tutor thee in stratagems of war, That Talbot's name might be in thee revived When sapless age and weak unable limbs Should bring thy father to his drooping chair. But, O malignant and ill-boding stars! Now thou art come unto a feast of death, A terrible and unavoided danger: Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse; And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
I beseech your majesty, make up, Lest your retirement do amaze your friends.
What's your name, sir? of what condition  are you, and of what place, I pray?
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken: I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
His ransom there is none but I shall pay: I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne: His crown shall be the ransom of my friend; Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours. Farewell, my masters; to my task will I; Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make, To keep our great Saint George's feast withal: Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take, Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake.
So did I too; and he swore he would marry her to-night.
Methought you said You saw one here in court could witness it.
A servant only, and a gentleman Which I have some time known.
What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns, And bear the name and port of gentlemen? Cut both the villains' throats; for die you shall: The lives of those which we have lost in fight Be counterpoised with such a petty sum!
Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
Not till you have slept; I fear me you'll be in till then.
I beseech you, sir, to countenance William Visor of Woncot against Clement Perkes of the hill.
How old art thou, Francis?
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
The same, sir.
Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our horses, by our habits and by every other appointment, to be ourselves.
My lord?
My mother a Plantagenet,--
Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be shut out?
Scarce can I speak, my choler is so great: O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint, I am so angry at these abject terms; And now, like Ajax Telamonius, On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury. I am far better born than is the king, More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts' But I must make fair weather yet a while, Till Henry be more weak and I more strong,-- Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me, That I have given no answer all this while; My mind was troubled with deep melancholy. The cause why I have brought this army hither Is to remove proud Somerset from the king, Seditious to his grace and to the state.
Ay, sir.
I go.
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back: Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
See how the blood is settled in his face. Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost, Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale and bloodless, Being all descended to the labouring heart; Who, in the conflict that it holds with death, Attracts the same for aidance 'gainst the enemy; Which with the heart there cools and ne'er returneth To blush and beautify the cheek again. But see, his face is black and full of blood, His eye-balls further out than when he lived, Staring full ghastly like a strangled man; His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretched with struggling; His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd And tugg'd for life and was by strength subdued: Look, on the sheets his hair, you see, is sticking; His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged, Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged. It cannot be but he was murder'd here; The least of all these signs were probable.
O joyful day! I would not take a knighthood for my fortune.
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to be prologue to an egg and butter.
Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress, Which will become you both, farewell.
Very hardly upon such a subject.
Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st not my sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
Had we but proofe of this   . 
Go to, then; your considerate stone.
That she is worthy, I know.
To me.
If we be not relieved within this hour, We must return to the court of guard: the night Is shiny; and they say we shall embattle By the second hour i' the morn.
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two have not in abundance?
This is the Gentleman you writ to.
I mean, thy general.
O, my lord !
What well-appointed leader fronts us here?
Why, Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead.
Stand close.
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean; And when thou fail'st--as God forbid the hour-- Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
I am not married, Csar: let me hear Agrippa further speak.
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe, And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick? Why ask that? my mangled body shows, My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows, That I must yield my body to the earth And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe. Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge, Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle, Under whose shade the ramping lion slept, Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree And kept low shrubs from winter's powerful wind. These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil, Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun, To search the secret treasons of the world: The wrinkles in my brows, now fill'd with blood, Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres; For who lived king, but I could dig his grave? And who durst smile when Warwick bent his brow? Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood! My parks, my walls, my manors that I had, Even forsake me, and of all my lands Is nothing left me but my body's length. Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust? And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
No more light answers. Let our officers Have notice what we purpose. I shall break The cause of our expedience to the queen, And get her leave to part. For not alone The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches, Do strongly speak to us; but the letters too Of many our contriving friends in Rome Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius Hath given the dare to Csar, and commands The empire of the sea: our slippery people, Whose love is never link'd to the deserver Till his deserts are past, begin to throw Pompey the Great and all his dignities Upon his son; who, high in name and power, Higher than both in blood and life, stands up For the main soldier: whose quality, going on, The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding, Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life, And not a serpent's poison. Say, our pleasure, To such whose place is under us, requires Our quick remove from hence.
Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget Our title to the crown and only claim Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
Know'st thou not, Bertram, What she has done for me?
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows the statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without the prince be willing; for, indeed, the watch ought to offend no man; and it is an offence to stay a man against his will.
He knowes it already.
'Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the Lord, I'll stab thee.
He dies, we lose; I break my warlike word; We mourn, France smiles; we lose, they daily get; All 'long of this vile traitor Somerset.
I am a Roman; and my services are, as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?
And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.
I have fair meanings, sir.
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
I know our safety is to follow them; For, as I hear, the king is fled to London, To call a present court of parliament. Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth. What says Lord Warwick? shall we after them?
God send the companion a better prince! I cannot rid my hands of him.
The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line I claim the crown, had issue, Philippe, a daughter, Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March: Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March; Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne and Eleanor.
Here's many words but no crownes; the crownes.
Gracious madam, I that do bring the news made not the match.
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other station; here's no place for you; pray you, avoid: come.
God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved. What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou never an eye in thy head? canst not hear? An 'twere not as good deed as drink, to break the pate on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hanged! hast no faith in thee?
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger. Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast, For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter; That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage I may not prove inferior to yourself. You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
A little fire is quickly trodden out; Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire, And not in fear of your nativity. Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd By the imprisoning of unruly wind Within her womb; which, for enlargement striving, Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down Steeples and moss-grown towers. At your birth Our grandam earth, having this distemperature, In passion shook.
Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime, good Signior Bendick, repair to Leonato's: commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made great preparation.
Well said, Hal! to it, Hal! Nay, you shall find no boy's play here, I can tell you.
I ne'er had worse luck in my life in my 'O Lord, sir!'   I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
Welcome, signior: you are almost come to part almost a fray.
Hast thou drunk well?
You have it from his own deliverance.
If York, with all his far-fet policy, Had been the regent there instead of me, He never would have stay'd in France so long.
Csar, I shall.
At Basingstoke, my lord.
Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not where to have her.
I was pricked well enough before, an you could have let me alone: my old dame will be undone now for one to do her husbandry  and her drudgery: you need not to have pricked me; there are other men fitter to go out than I.
I know none of that name, lady: there was none such in the army of any sort.
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth A bird that will revenge upon you all: And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven, Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with. Why come you not? what multitudes, and fear?
Let it alone; I'll make other shift: you'll be a fool still.
And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
None in the world; but return with an invention and clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we have almost embossed  him: you shall see his fall to-night; for indeed he is not for your lordship's respect.
He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
'Tis done already, and the messenger gone. I have told him, Lepidus was grown too cruel; That he his high authority abused, And did deserve his change: for what I have conquer'd, I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia, And other of his conquer'd kingdoms, I Demand the like.
Why, then, Lord Talbot there shall talk with him And give him chastisement for this abuse. How say you, my lord? are you not content?
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
What may the king's whole battle reach unto?
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns: What danger or what sorrow can befall thee, So long as Edward is thy constant friend, And their true sovereign, whom they must obey? Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too, Unless they seek for hatred at my hands; Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe, And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
I know you, Mistress Dorothy.
I never knew a man take his death so patiently as this Fryar:  he was ready to leape off e're the halter was about his necke; and when the Hangman had put on his hempen Tippet, he made such haste to his prayers, as if hee had had another Cure to serve; well, goe whither he will, I'le be none of his followers in haste: And now I thinke on's, going to the execution, a fellow met me var:#muschatoes] mustachios Dd2-R, C#  with a  muschatoes  mustachios Dd2-  like a Ravens wing, and a Dagger with a hilt like a warming-pan, and he gave me a letter from one var:#had] <I>omit</I> Dd2, S, Ox, Dd3#  Madam Bellamira , saluting me in such sort as if he  had   meant to make cleane my Boots with his lips; the effect was, that I should var:#house.] ~,#  var:#is.] ~;#  come to her house  .  ,  I wonder what the reason is  .   It may be she sees more in me than I can find in my selfe: for she writes further, that she loves me ever since she saw me, and who would not requite such love? here's her house, and here she comes, and now would I were gone, I am not worthy to looke upon her.
Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and send him back again to my mother.
And yours, most noble Bardolph!
Content; and the argument shall be thy running away.
That's fifty- five year ago.
I'll leave you, lady.
O, let me pray before I take my death! To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!
True, and they are to meddle with none but the prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets; for, for the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.
They have dispatch'd with Pompey, he is gone; The other three are sealing. Octavia weeps To part from Rome; Csar is sad; and Lepidus, Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled With the green sickness.
Is't Cade that I have slain, that monstrous traitor? Sword, I will hallow thee for this thy deed, And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead: Ne'er shall this blood be wiped from thy point; But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat, To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
He that was in question for the robbery?
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all: If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness. Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York; And when the morning sun shall raise his car Above the border of this horizon, We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates; For well I wot that Henry is no soldier. Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee, To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother! Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick. Come on, brave soldiers: doubt not of the day, And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
Ay, ay, he said four.
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee, keep that for the hangman; for I know thou worshippest Saint Nicholas as truly as a man of falsehood may.
Ay: But soon that war had end, and the time's state Made friends of them, joining their force 'gainst Csar; Whose better issue in the war, from Italy, Upon the first encounter, drave them.
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down Must answer for your raising? I know her well: She had her breeding at my father's charge. A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain Rather corrupt me ever!
Nay, stand thou back; I will not budge a foot: This be Damascus, be thou cursed Cain, To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
But, for mine own part, my lord, I could be well contented to be there, in respect  of the love I bear your house.  He could be contented: why is he not, then?   In respect of the love he bears our house: he shows in this, he loves his own barn better than he loves our house. Let me see some more. The purpose you undertake is dangerous;  why, that's certain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. The purpose you undertake is dangerous; the friends you have named uncertain; the time itself unsorted; and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition.  Say you so, say you so? I say unto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, and you lie. What a lackbrain  is this! By the Lord, our plot is a good plot as ever was laid; our friends true and constant: a good plot, good friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot, very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is this! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the action. 'Zounds, an I were now by this rascal, I could brain him with his lady's fan. Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lord Edmund Mortimer, my lord of York and Owen Glendower? is there not besides the Douglas? have I not all their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month? and are they not some of them set forward already? What a pagan rascal is this! an infidel! Ha! you shall see now in very sincerity of fear and cold heart, will he to the king and lay open all our proceedings . O, I could divide myself and go to buffets, for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him! let him tell the king: we are prepared. I will set forward to-night. How now, Kate! I must leave you within these two hours.
Sir, I never loved you much; but I ha' praised ye, When you have well deserved ten times as much As I have said you did.
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
And so he did: but yet I like it not, In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
I have delivered it an hour since: there is something in't that stings his nature; for on the reading it he changed almost into another man.
Noble Antony, Not sickness should detain me. 
If I be not, heavens be revenged on me!
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
My uncle is return'd: Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland. Uncle, what news?
With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
A' must needs; for beggary is valiant.
Come here, Pistol; stand behind me. O, if I had had time to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the thousand pound I borrowed of you.   But 'tis no matter; this poor show doth better: this doth infer the zeal
v I had to see him.
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
I love no colours, and without all colour Of base insinuating flattery I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us: By fair or foul means we must enter in, For hither will our friends repair to us.
Your own desert!
My devotion,--
Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be king.
He, my lord: but he hath since done good service at Shrewsbury; and, as I hear, is now going with some charge to the Lord John of Lancaster.
Ah, Exeter!
Where is it, Jack? where is it?
Beat
I could well forbear 't. It's monstrous labor, when I wash my brain, And it grows fouler.
Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
I do not doubt you.
Will you tell me, Master Shallow, how to choose a man? Care I for the limb, the thewes, the stature, bulk, and big assemblance of a man! Give me the spirit, Master Shallow. Here's Wart; you see what a ragged appearance  it is: a' shall charge you and discharge you with the motion of a pewterer's hammer, come off and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewer's bucket. And this same half- faced fellow, Shadow; give me this man: he presents no mark to the enemy; the foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of a penknife. And for a retreat; how swiftly will this Feeble the woman's tailor run off!  O, give me the spare men, and spare me the great ones. Put me a caliver into Wart's hand, Bardolph. 
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her, Invited her to supper: she replied, It should be better he became her guest; Which she entreated: our courteous Antony, Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak, Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast, And for his ordinary pays his heart For what his eyes eat only.
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will.
Madam, he's well.
Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass: I beseech you, let it be remembered in his punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of one Deformed: they say he wears a key in his ear and a lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he hath used so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing for God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point.
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an honest man: and touching the Duke of York, I will take my death, I never meant him any ill, nor the king, nor the queen: and therefore, Peter, have at thee with a down-right blow!
That's even as fair asat hand, quoth the chamberlain; for thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction  doth from labouring; thou layest the plot how.
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more, Till you conclude that he upon whose side The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree Shall yield the other in the right opinion.
Si fortuna me tormenta, spero contenta. 
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
If you could find out a country where but women were that had received so much shame, you might begin an impudent nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France too: we shall speak of you there.
My lord, I long to hear it at full.
'Fore God, I think so.
Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush Nor change my countenance for this arrest: A heart unspotted is not easily daunted. The purest spring is not so free from mud As I am clear from treason to my sovereign: Who can accuse me? wherein am I guilty?
And topping all others in boasting.
Draw it.
Where's Richard gone?
Cold news, Lord   Somerset: but God's will be done!
Farewell, good brother: we shall thrive, I trust.
Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
If it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear; for what I would speak of concerns him.
A' will betray us all unto ourselves: Inform on that.
Sir John, I prithee, leave the prince and me alone: I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go.
Ay, but the case is alter'd: When you disgraced me in my embassade, Then I degraded you from being king, And come now to create you Duke of York. Alas! how should you govern any kingdom, That know not how to use ambassadors, Nor how to be contented with one wife, Nor how to use your brothers brotherly, Nor how to study for the people's welfare, Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa.
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot one.
Well, the king hath severed you and Prince Harry: I hear you are going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop and the Earl of Northumberland.
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends, Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war; Those will I muster up; and thou, son Clarence, Shall stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk and in Kent, The knights and gentlemen to come with thee: Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham, Northampton and in Leicestershire, shalt find Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st: And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved, In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends. My sovereign, with the loving citizens, Like to his island girt in with the ocean, Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs, Shall rest in London till we come to him. Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply. Farewell, my sovereign.
Is she gone to the king?
A good sharp fellow: I will send for him; and question him yourself.
Nay, but I know who loves him.
With red wheat, Davy. But for William  cook: are there no young pigeons?
Well said; come on. Call forth my household servants: let's tonight  Be bounteous at our meal. Give me thy hand, Thou hast been rightly honest;so hast thou ; Thou,and   thou,and   thou :you   have served me well, And kings have been your fellows.
I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
You hear, Count Claudio: I can be secret as a dumb man; I would have you think so; but, on my allegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He is in love. With who? now that is your grace's part. Mark how short his answer is;With Hero, Leonato's short daughter.
I do not much dislike the matter, but The manner of his speech; for't cannot be We shall remain in friendship, our conditions So differing in their acts. Yet, if I knew What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge O' the world I would pursue it.
Let Rome be thus Inform'd.
Very hand of heaven.
Why should that gentleman that rode by Travers Give then such instances of loss?
Here, sir.
Madam, I am protector of the realm; And, at his pleasure, will resign my place.
How now! rain within doors, and none abroad How doth the king?
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block! an oak but with one green leaf on it would have answered her; my very visor began to assume life and scold with her. She told me, not thinking I had been myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs: if her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star. I would not marry her, though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed: she would have made Hercules have turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make the fire too. Come, talk not of her: you shall find her the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God some scholar would conjure her; for certainly, while she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose, because they would go thither; so, indeed, all disquiet, horror and perturbation follows her. 
Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not us that are squires of the night's body be called thieves of the day's beauty: let us be Diana's foresters, gentlemen of the shade, minions of the moon; and let men say we be men of good government, being governed, as the sea is, by our noble and chaste mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
For all the world As thou art to this hour was Richard then When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh, And even as I was then is Percy now. Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot, He hath more worthy interest to the state Than thou the shadow of succession; For of no right, nor colour like to right, He doth fill fields with harness in the realm, Turns head against the lion's armed jaws, And, being no more in debt to years than thou, Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on To bloody battles and to bruising arms. What never-dying honour hath he got Against renowned Douglas! whose high deeds, Whose hot incursions and great name in arms Holds from all soldiers chief majority And military title capital Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ: Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes, This infant warrior, in his enterprizes Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once, Enlarged him and made a friend of him, To fill the mouth of deep defiance up And shake the peace and safety of our throne. And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland, The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer, Capitulate against us and are up. But wherefore do I tell these news to thee? Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes, Which art my near'st and dearest enemy? Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear, Base inclination and the start of spleen, To fight against me under Percy's pay, To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns, To show how much thou art degenerate.
The business she hath broached in the state Cannot endure my absence.
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place! So should we save a valiant gentleman By forfeiting a traitor and a coward. Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep, That thus we die, while remiss traitors sleep.
The devil it is that's thy master.  Why dost thou garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of thy sleeves? do other servants so?   Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose stands.   By mine honor, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat thee: methinks, thou art a general offence, and every man should beat thee: I think thou wast created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
O Lord, sir! I am a diseased man.
Where's he?
Pardon me, madam: If I had given you this at over-night, She might have been o'erta'en; and yet she writes, Pursuit would be but vain.
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal of his act.
The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of darkness; alias, the devil.
Presently we'll try: come, let's away about it: No prophet will I trust if she prove false.
I give it you.
He that buckles him in my belt can- not live in less.
No.
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget That we are those which chased you from the field And slew your fathers, and with colours spread March'd through the city to the palace gates.
Madam, it is.
Let us go see your son, I pray you:  I long to talk with the young noble soldier.
Well I know the man.
He is, indeed; and living to kill thee. I prithee, lend me thy sword.
Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears; And now, to add more measure to your woes, I come to tell you things sith then befall'n. After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought, Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp, Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run, Were brought me of your loss and his depart. I, then in London, keeper of the king, Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends, And very well appointed, as I thought, March'd toward Saint Alban's to intercept the queen, Bearing the king in my behalf along; For by my scouts I was advertised That she was coming with a full intent To dash our late decree in parliament Touching King Henry's oath and your succession. Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met, Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought: But whether 'twas the coldness of the king, Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen, That robbed my soldiers of their heated spleen; Or whether 'twas report of her success; Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour, Who thunders to his captives blood and death, I cannot judge: but, to conclude with truth, Their weapons like to lightning came and went; Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight, Or like an idle thresher with a flail, Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends. I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause, With promise of high pay and great rewards: But all in vain; they had no heart to fight, And we in them no hope to win the day; So that we fled; the king unto the queen; Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself, In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you; For in the marches here we heard you were, Making another head to fight again.
All furnish'd, all in arms; All plumed like estridges that with the wind Baited like eagles having lately bathed; Glittering in golden coats, like images; As full of spirit as the month of May, And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer; Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls. I saw young Harry, with his beaver on, His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd, Rise from the ground like feather'd Mercury, And vaulted with such ease into his seat, As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds, To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
A rascal! to brave me!
I thought no less: it is his policy To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please, For I have seen our enemies' overthrow. What is the trust or strength of foolish man? They that of late were daring with their scoffs Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves. Bedford dies, and is carried in by two in
his chair.
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
His grace says that which his flesh rebels against.
Nicanor? no.
Is it good morrow, lords?
A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
To you, my noble Lord of Westmoreland.
Which soon he granted, Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
My brother was too careless of his charge. But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide A salve for any sore that may betide.
No, I serve not thy master.
Roam thither, then.
Thrust him down stairs! know   we not Galloway nags?
The cardinal's not my better in the field.
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
My lord, I beseech you, give me leave to go Through Gloucestershire: and, when you come to court, Stand my good lord, pray, in your good report.
What is this forest call'd?
No, no, no.
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always good enough for him.
Come on, my masters, each man take his stand: The king by this is set him down to sleep.
I give thee leave to tell me so! I lay aside that which grows to me! If thou gettest any leave of me, hang me; if thou takest leave, thou wert better be hanged. You hunt countter: hence!   avaunt!
A famous rebel art thou, Colevile.
Pardon me, gracious lord; Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
My lord, I over-rode him on the way; And he is furnish'd with no certainties More than he haply may retail from me.
As by your high imperial majesty I had in charge at my depart from France, As procurator to your excellence, To marry Princess Margaret for your grace, So, in the famous ancient city of Tours, In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil, The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne and Alencon, Seven earls, twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops, I have perform'd my task and was espoused: And humbly now upon my bended knee, In sight of England and her lordly peers, Deliver up my title in the queen To your most gracious hands, that are the substance Of that great shadow I did represent; The happiest gift that ever marquess gave, The fairest queen that ever king received.
What, stand'st thou idle here? lend me thy sword: Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies, Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee, lend me thy sword.
Most gracious majesty,
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
That villanous abominable misleader  of youth, Falstaff, that old whitebearded  Satan.
I come with gracious offers from the king, If you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
Francis!
Five or six thousand; but very weak and unserviceable: the troops are all scattered, and the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation and credit and as I hope to live.
Master Gower, shall I entreat you with me to dinner?
And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away; Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner refused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died. Master constable, let these men be bound, and brought to Leonato's: I will go before and show him their examination.
'Twill be two o'clock ere they come from the coronation: dispatch, dispatch. patch. Enter FALSTAFF, SHALLOW, PISTOL, BARDOLPH, and Page. 
I would I had that corporal soundness now, As when thy father and myself in friendship First tried our soldiership! He did look far Into the service of the time and was Discipled of the bravest: he lasted long; But on us both did haggish age steal on And wore us out of act. It much repairs me To talk of your good father. In his youth He had the wit which I can well observe To-day in our young lords; but they may jest Till their own scorn return to them unnoted Ere they can hide their levity in honor: So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were, His equal had awaked them, and his honour, Clock to itself, knew the true minute when Exception bid him speak, and at this time His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him He used as creatures of another place And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks, Making them proud of his humility, In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man Might be a copy to these younger times; Which, follow'd well, would demonstrate them now But goers backward.
My lords ambassadors, your several suits Have been consider'd and debated on. Your purpose is both good and reasonable; And therefore are we certainly resolved To draw conditions of a friendly peace; Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean Shall be transported presently to France.
Why, 'tis well known that, whiles I was protector, Pity was all the fault that was in me; For I should melt at an offender's tears, And lowly words were ransom for their fault. Unless it were a bloody murderer, Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers, I never gave them condign punishment: Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortured Above the felon or what trespass else.
He's married, madam.
But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive at me; for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst not see thy hand.
Sir, this should be answer'd.
Were our tears wanting to this funeral, These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
O, thou hast damnable iteration and are indeed able to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon me, Hal; God forgive thee for it! Before I knew thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and now am I, if a man should speak truly, little better than one of the wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give it over: by the Lord, an I do not, I am a villain: I'll be damned for never a king's son in Christendom.
Save you, fair queen!
Hush! here comes Antony.
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very melancholy man.
In faith, It is a conquest for a prince to boast of.
And I hear, moreover, his highness is fallen into this same whoreson apoplexy.
Where lies he?
Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
We are advertised by our loving friends That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury: We, having now the best at Barnet field, Will thither straight, for willingness rids way; And, as we march, our strength will be augmented In every county as we go along. Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.
The number of the king exceedeth ours: For God's sake, cousin, stay till all come in. Enter SIR WALTER BLUNT. 
Why say you so? looks he not for supply?
They say, one Taurus.
Upon thy certainty and confidence What darest thou venture?
Retreat is made and execution stay 'd.
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt? Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
Do so, we'll speak to them; and tonight I'll force The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen; There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight, I'll make death love me; for I will contend Even with his pestilent scythe.
Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court, And may enjoy such quiet walks as these? This small inheritance my father left me Contenteth me, and worth a monarchy. I seek not to wax great by others' waning, Or gather wealth, I care not, with what envy: Sufficeth that I have maintains my state And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
When did she send thee ?
Each hath his place and function to attend: I am left out; for me nothing remains. But long I will not be Jack out of office: The king from Eltham I intend to steal And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
Here's a villain!
And you can have it, Sir, and if you please.
We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury, to call a prince's brother villain.
I think there's no man speaks better Welsh. I'll to dinner.
What is his strength by land?
A jewel, lock'd into the wofull'st cask That ever did contain a thing of worth. Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we: This way I fall to death.
Good Barabas let me goe.
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend, This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair, Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off, Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood, 'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
The time of universal peace is near: Prove this a prosperous day, the three-nook'd world Shall bear the olive freely.
E'en a crow o' the same nest; altogether so great as the first in goodness, but greater a great deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward, yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is: in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming on he has the cramp.
They want their porridge and their fat bull-beeves: Either they must be dieted like mules And have their provender tied to their mouths Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit any question.
How, I pray you?
No cause! Thy father slew my father; therefore die.
Why, there spoke a king. Lack nothing:  be merry. Look who's at the door there, ho! who knocks? [Exit Davy. 
The lord protector lost it, and not I: When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me truly how thou likest her. 
None, my lord, but old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll Tearsheet.
Ne'er trust me, then; for when a world of men Could not prevail with all their oratory, Yet hath a woman's kindness over-ruled: And therefore tell her I return great thanks, And in submission will attend on her. Will not your honours bear me company?
Ho, ho, ho! Now the witch take me, if I meant it thus! Grace grow where those drops fall ! My hearty friends, You take me in too dolorous a sense; For I spake to you for your comfort; did desire you To burn this night with torches: know, my hearts, I hope well of to-morrow; and will lead you Where rather I'll expect victorious life Than death and honor. Let's to supper, come, And drown consideration.
Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the boy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
My lord ?
Away with her, and waft her hence to France. And now what rests but that we spend the time With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows, Such as befits the pleasure of the court? Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy! For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.
My lord, I neither can nor will deny But that I know them: do they charge me further?
But whither shall we then?
Red, master: red as blood.
How now, madam! Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death? I fear me, love, if that I had been dead, Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
Now, Harry, whence come you?
I think she has: certain it is I liked her, And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth: She knew her distance and did angle for me, Madding my eagerness with her restraint, As all impediments in fancy's course Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine, Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace, Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring; And I had that which any inferior might At market-price have bought.
I' the common show-place, where they exercise. His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings: Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia, He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia: she In the habiliments of the goddess Isis That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience, As 'tis reported, so.
Then send for one presently.
Foul fiend of France, and hag of all despite, Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours! Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age And twit with cowardice a man half dead? Damsel, I'll have a bout with you again, Or else let Tabot perish with this shame.
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture, My mouth no more were broken than these boys', And writ as little beard.
Is 't possible that so short a time can alter the condition of a man?
And how doth my cousin, your bedfellow?  and your fairest daughter and mine, my god-daughter Ellen?
Salisbury is a desperate homicide; He fighteth as one weary of his life. The other lords, like lions wanting food, Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
And the business you have broached here cannot be without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which wholly depends on your abode.
Yea, my good lord. Those prisoners in your highness' name demanded, Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took, Where, as he says, not with such strength denied As is deliver'd to your majesty: Either envy, therefore, or misprision Is guilty of this fault and not my son.
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale, Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
What, Hal! how   now, mad wag! what a devil dost thou in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been at Shrewsbury.
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets. What hast thou found?
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter: Not that I fear to stay, but love to go Whither the queen intends. Forward; away!
Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son: The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow, And with the other fling it at thy face, Than bear so low a sail, to strike to thee.
How now, my lords!
Not so, neither: but know that I have to-night wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress' chamber- window, bids me a thousand times good night, I tell this tale vilely:I should first tell thee how the prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter.
Why, Enobarbus, When Antony found Julius Csar dead, He cried almost to roaring; and he wept When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
'Tis so.
He had his part of it; let him pay.
Widow, we will consider of your suit; And come some other time to know our mind.
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged his honor in marrying the renowned Claudio whose estimation do you mightily hold upto a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.
Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent, But to defend his person from night-foes?
I have said.
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords, farewell.
Know you any, Hero?
What's the matter?
O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
To Eltham will I, where the young king is, Being ordain'd his special governor, And for his safety there I'll best devise.
How should that be ?
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
No, 'tis impossible he should escape; For, though before his face I speak the words, Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave: And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Dost thou hear? it is mine ancient.
The other night I fell asleep here behind  the arras and had my pocket picked: this house is turned bawdy-house; they pick pockets.
I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed: I crave our composition may be written, And seal'd between us.
I warrant your worship shall hav't.
What tidings send our scouts?   I prithee, speak.
Why not to him in part, and to us all That feel the bruises of the days before, And suffer the condition of these times To lay a heavy and unequal hand Upon our honours?
Your worship! I'll be with you straight of wine, sir?
It is, my lord.
Stay, stay, I say! And if you love me, as you say you do, Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
'Tis pity of him.
May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
Most admirable: I have seen those wars.
What now remains, my lords, for us to do But march to London with our soldiers?
Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content: We'll yoke together, like a double shadow To Henry's body, and supply his place; I mean, in bearing weight of government, While he enjoys the honour and his ease. And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor, And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
See the coast clear'd, and then we will depart. Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear! I myself fight not once in forty year.
These be good humors, indeed!  Shall pack-horses And hollow pamper'd jades of Asia, Which cannot go but thirty mile a-day, Compare with Csars, and with Cannibals, And Trojan Greeks? nay, rather damn them with King Cerberus; and let the welkin roar. Shall we fall foul for toys?
Say on, my Lord of Westmoreland, in peace: What doth concern your coming?
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
Come hither, count; do you know these women?
He came not through the chamber where we stay'd.
And God defend but still I should stand so, So long as out of limit and true rule You stand against anointed majesty. But to my charge. The king hath sent to know The nature of your griefs, and whereupon You conjure from the breasts of civil peace Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land Audacious cruelty.   If that the king Have any way your good deserts forgot, Which he confesseth to be manifold, He bids you name your griefs; and with all speed You shall have your desires with interest And pardon absolute for yourself and these Herein misled by your suggestion.
What fates impose, that men must needs abide; It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind; 'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike, But 'tis my presence that doth trouble ye. Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face I see thy fury: if I longer stay, We shall begin our ancient bickerings. Lordlings, farewell; and say, when I am gone, I prophesied France will be lost ere long.
Stay, Whitmore; for thy prisoner is a prince, The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
The good old man would fain that all were well, So 'twere not 'long of him; but being enter'd, I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
Walter,--
What, will he not to bed?
I would fain know what you have to say.
Say, gentle princess, would you not suppose Your bondage happy to be made a queen?
O my dear lord, lo, where your son is borne!
Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice; For, had the passions of thy heart burst out, I fear we should have seen decipher'd there More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils, Than yet can be imagined or supposed. But howsoe'er no simple man that sees This jarring discord of nobility, This shouldering of each other in the court, This factious bandying of their favourites, But that it doth presage some ill event. 'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands; But more when envy breeds unkind division; There comes the ruin, there begins confusion.
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap and be buried in thy eyes; and moreover
Nor me neither, I cannot out-run you Constable, oh my belly.
Strike; down with them; cut the villains'  throats: ah! whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! they hate us youth: down with them; fleece them.
Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife: In sight of God and us, your guilt is great: Receive the sentence of the law for sins Such as by God's book are adjudged to death. You four, from hence to prison back again; From thence unto the place of execution: The witch in Smithfield shall be burn'd to ashes, And you three shall be strangled on the gallows. You, madam, for you are more nobly born, Despoiled of your honour in your life, Shall, after three days' open penance done Live in your country here in banishment, With Sir John Stanley, in the Isle of Man.
Thanks, gentle sir. Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say This quarrel will drink blood another day.
How now, blown Jack! how now, quilt!
What's the news, my lord?
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
Why, a prince should not be so loosely studied as to remember so weak a composition.
A proper jest, and never heard before, That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth For costs and charges in transporting her! She should have stay'd in France and starved in France, Before--
Delivered with good respect. And how doth the martlemas, your master?
I wrote to you When rioting in Alexandria; you Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts Did gibe my missive out of audience.
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance: The truth appears so naked on my side That any purblind eye may find it out.
O, no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard, The liberal and kind offer of the king.
What, a hundred, man?
Sir John, the Lord bless youl God prosper your affairs! God send us peace! At your return visit our house; let our old acquaintance be renewed: peradventure I will with ye to the court.
Marry, the immortal part needs a physician; but that moves not him: though that be sick, it dies not.
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I: every man to his business.
How now, my lord! what hap? what hope of good?
I care not.
He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune, He is twenty men to one.
She is.
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.

He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head. Now march we hence: discharge the common sort With pay and thanks, and let's away to London And see our gentle queen how well she fares: By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
Noble earl, I bring you certain news from Shrewsbury.
It shows my earnestness of affection,--
Henry now lives in Scotland at his ease, Where having nothing, nothing can he lose. And as for you yourself, our quondam queen, You have a father able to maintain you; And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
I found you as a morsel cold upon Dead Csar's trencher; nay, you were a fragment Of Cneius Pompey's; besides what hotter hours. Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have Luxuriously pick'd out: for, I am sure, Though you can guess what temperance should be, You know not what it is.
O noble weakness ! If they had swallow'd poison, 'twould appear By external swelling: but she looks like sleep, As she would catch another Antony In her strong toil of grace.
Thank your majesty. Flourish. 
Take that, thou likeness of this railer here.
No!
How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities you laid upon me? What! rate, rebuke, and roughly send to prison The immediate heir of England!   Was this easy? May this be wash'd in Lethe, and forgotten?
Csar hath sent
Why have you stol'n upon us thus! You come not Like Csar's sister: the wife of Antony Should have an army for an usher, and The neighs of horse to tell of her approach Long ere she did appear; the trees by the way Should have borne men; and expectation fainted, Longing for what it had not; nay, the dust Should have ascended to the roof of heaven, Raised by your populous troops: but you are come A market-maid to Rome; and have prevented The ostentation of our love, which, left unshown, Is often left unloved; we should have met you By sea and land; supplying every stage With an augmented greeting.
You will take little delight in it, I can tell you; there is such odds in the man. In pity of the challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies; see if you can move him.
Neither, my lord.
Come, my masters: the duchess, I tell you, expects performance of your promises.
About what?
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for disturbing the lords within.
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.
Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief; And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
None better than to let him fetch off his drum, which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right, And Henry but usurps the diadem.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails; We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st How much we do o'er-count thee.
As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not: It is to you, good people, that I speak, Over whom, in time to come, I hope to reign; For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase, For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
You praise yourself By laying defects of judgment to me; but You patch'd up your excuses.
Kindly! Sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private. Your good voice, sir; what say you?
Why the devil invented a challenge, my  master  Mr.  writ it, and I carried it, first to Lodowicke , and imprimis to Mathias .
Dowlas, filthy dowlas: I have given them away to bakers' wives, and they have made bolters of them.
I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now he's a cat to me.
That's false.
Therefore am I of an honourable house.
Boy, tell him I am deaf.
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter: an old man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.
Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as well as waiting in the court, I can tell you.
My lord, there's an army gathered together in Smithfield.
You are too shallow, Hastings, much too shallow, To sound the bottom of the after-times.
With scoffs and scorns and contumelious taunts. In open market-place produced they me, To be a public spectacle to all: Here, said they, is the terror of the French, The scarecrow that affrights our children so. Then broke I from the officers that led me, And with my nails digg'd stones out of the ground, To hurl at the beholders of my shame: My grisly countenance made others fly; None durst come near for fear of sudden death. In iron walls they deem'd me not secure; So great fear of my name 'mongst them was spread That they supposed I could rend bars of steel And spurn in pieces posts of adamant: Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had That walk'd about me every minute while; And if I did but stir out of my bed, Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.
Here's a drench to poyson a whole stable of Flanders mares: I'le carry's to the Nuns with a powder.
His love and wisdom, Approved so to your majesty, may plead For amplest credence.
Boy!
Fear no colors: go with me to dinner:  come, Lieutenant Pistol; come, Bardolph:  I shall be sent for soon at night.
So much the worse; I must have one that's sickly,  and  and't  an't   be but for sparing vittles: 'tis not a stone of beef a day will main- taine 
you in these chops; let me see one that's somewhat leaner.
Madam, She was a widow,
If it were yours by none of all these ways, How could you give it him?
Who carried that challenge?
Eros, thou yet behold'st me ?
For my part, I am sorry it is turned to a drinking. Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies: The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
I wonder how our princely father 'scaped. Or whether he be 'scaped away or no From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit: Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news; Had he been slain, we should have heard the news; Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard The happy tidings of his good escape. How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
And I the house of York.
O God, have I overcome mine enemy in this presence?  O Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!
Yes, in truth it is, sir.
Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day; By the mass, so did we all.   I thank you, Richard: God knows how long it is I have to live; And it hath pleased him that three times to-day You have defended me from imminent death. Well, lords, we have not got that which we have: 'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled, Being opposites of such repairing nature.
As you'll have her.
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself; And now will I be Edward's champion.
And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
O!
Thirty fathom.
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
O, Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile. Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have done this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.
Never tell him, my lord: let her wear it out with good counsel.
I knew of this before; but, to speak truth, This present grief had wiped it from my mind. Go in with me; and counsel every man The aptest way for safety and revenge: Get posts and letters, and make friends with speed: Never so few, and never yet more need.
Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say true, --or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
We have heard the chimes at midnight, Master Shallow.
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence, Confess who set up thee and pluck'd thee down, Call Warwick patron and be penitent? And thou shall still remain the Duke of York.
I did.
And on my side it is so well apparell'd, So clear, so shining and so evident That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
And a good soldier too, lady.
Ah, this thou shouldst have done, And not have spoke on't! In me 'tis villany; In thee't had been good service. Thou must know, 'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honor; Mine honor, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue Hath so betray'd thine act: being done unknown, I should have found it afterwards well done; But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
That is not the duke's letter, sir; that is an advertisement to a proper maid in Florence,  one Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count Rousillon, a foolish idle boy, but for all that very ruttish: I pray you, sir, put it up again.
As good as heart can wish: The king is almost wounded to the death; And, in fortune of my lord your son, Prince Harry slain outright; and both the Blunts Kill'd by the hand of Douglas; young Prince John And Westmoreland and Stafford fled the field; And Harry Monmouth's brawn, the hulk Sir John, Is prisoner to your son: O, such a day, So fought, so follow'd and so fairly won, Came not till now to dignify the times, Since Csar's fortunes!
Rare Egyptian!
O Lord, sir! Thick, thick, spare not me.
By no meanes possible.
Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign, Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet We do exhibit to your majesty.
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee And I should rob the deathsman of his fee, Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames, And that my sovereign's presence makes me mild, I would, false murderous coward, on thy knee Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech And say it was thy mother that thou mean'st, That thou thyself was born in bastardy; And after all this fearful homage done, Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell, Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men!
Then thou remainest resolute.
Bring me unto my trial when you will. Died he not in his bed? where should he die? Can I make men live, whether they will or no? O, torture me no more! I will confess. Alive again? then show me where he is: I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him. He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them. Comb down his hair; look, look it stands upright, Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul. Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son Hath made her break out into terms of rage! Revenged may she be on that hateful duke, Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire, Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle Tire on the flesh of me and of my son! The loss of those three lords torments my heart: I'll write unto them and entreat them fair. Come, cousin, you shall be the messenger.
It is: and lo, where youthful Edward comes!
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks, the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn buttock, or any buttock.
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come? Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced, That we could hear no news of his repair?
Play, Fidler, or I'le cut your cats guts into chitterlins.
This is my servant: hear him, noble prince.
With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love thee.
Might he not as well come as send; pray bid him come var:#it:] ~,#  and fetch it  :  ,  what tree writes for you, ye shall have streight.
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not shame me.
Convey him hence and on our longboat's side Strike off his head.
No, I can better play the orator.
O, uncle, would some part of my young years Might but redeem the passage of your age!
Stay, or thou diest! The drum playing and trumpet sounding,  re-enter WARWICK, SOMERSET, and the rest,
bringing the KING out in his gown, sitting
in a chair. RICHARD and HASTINGS fly
over the stage. 
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in't; said to be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint; hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as you areI cannot call you Lycurgusesif the drink you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in compound with the major part of your syllables: and though I must be content to bear with those that say you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that tell you you have good faces. If you see this in the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known well enough too? what harm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be known well enough too?
'Tis spoken well. Were we before our armies, and to fight. I should do thus.
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon. I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy, And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
Certain, 'tis certain; very sure, very sure: death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all; all shall die. How a good yoke of bullocks  at Stamford fair?
These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet; My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre, For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go; My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell; And so obsequious will thy father be, Even for the loss of thee, having no more, As Priam was for all his valiant sons. I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will, For I have murdered where I should not kill.
A rarer spirit never Did steer humanity: but you, gods, will give us Some faults to make us men. Csar is touch'd.
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is when she's fallen out with her husband.   Your noble Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request of his country.
You may think I love you not: let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I think he holds you well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage, surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed.
On our side like the token'd pestilence, Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt, Whom leprosy o'ertake !i' the midst o' the fight, When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd, Both as the same, or rather ours the elder, The breese upon her, like a cow in June, Hoists sails and flies.
The treasury of everlasting joy.
God pardon thee; yet let me wonder, Harry, At thy affections, which do hold a wing Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors. Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost, Which by thy younger brother is supplied, And art almost an alien to the hearts Of all the court and princes of my blood: The hope and expectation of thy time Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man Prophetically doth forethink thy fall. Had I so lavish of my presence been, So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men, So stale and cheap to vulgar company, Opinion, that did help me to the crown, Had still kept loyal to possession And left me in reputeless banishment, A   fellow of no mark nor likelihood. By being seldom seen, I could not stir But like a comet I was wonder'd at; That men would tell their children 'This is he;' Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?' And then I stole all courtesy from heaven, And dress'd myself in such humility That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts, Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths, Even in the presence of the crowned king. Thus did I keep my person fresh and new; My presence, like a robe pontifical, Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state, Seldom but sumptuous, showed like a feast And won by rareness such solemnity. The skipping king, he ambled up and down With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits, Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state, Mingled his royalty with capering fools, Had his great name profaned with their scorns And gave his countenance, against his name, To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push Of every beardless vain comparative, Grew a companion to the common streets, Enfeoff'd himself to popularity; That, being daily swallow'd by men's eyes, They surfeited with honey and began To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little More than a little is by much too much. So when he had occasion to be seen, He was but as the cuckoo is in June, Heard, not regarded; seen, but with such eyes As, sick and blunted with community, Afford no extraordinary gaze, Such as is bent on sun-like majesty When it shines seldom in admiring eyes; But rather drowsed and hung their eyelids down, Slept in his face and render'd such aspect As cloudy men use to their adversaries, Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full. And in that very line, Harry, standest thou; For thou hast lost thy princely privilege With vile participation: not an eye But is a-weary of thy common sight, Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more; Which now doth that I would not have it do, Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.
Doubt not, sir; I knew it for my bond.
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh there's nine that I know.
Sir, pardon; a soldier is better accommodated  than with a wife.
How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your disposition.
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course, And we are graced with wreaths of victory. But, in the midst of this bright-shining day, I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud, That will encounter with our glorious sun, Ere he attain his easeful western bed: I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen Hath raised in Gallia have arrived our coast And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
This new and gorgeous garment, majesty, Sits not so easy on me as you think. Brothers, you mix your sadness with some fear: This is the English, not the Turkish court; Not Amurath an Amurath succeeds, But Harry Harry. Yet be sad, good brothers, For, by my faith, it very well becomes you: Sorrow so royally in you appears That I will deeply put the fashion on And wear it in my heart: why then, be sad; But entertain no more of it, good brothers, Than a joint burden laid upon us all. For me, by heaven, I bid you be assured, I'll be your father and your brother too; Let me but bear your love, I'll bear your cares: Yet weep that Harry's dead; and so will I; But Harry lives, that shall convert those tears By number into hours of happiness.
Arm, gentlemen: to arms! for I have thrown A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth, And Westmoreland, that was engaged, did bear it; Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
So hath my lord dared him to single fight.
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
Then feed, and be fat, my fair Calipolis. Come, give's some sack. 'Si fortune me tormente, sperato me contento.' Fear we broadsides? no, let the fiend give fire: Give me some sack: and, sweetheart, lie thou there. Come we to fill points here; and are etceteras nothing ?
This health to Lepidus!
Madam, be patient: as I was cause Your highness came to England, so will I In England work your grace's full content. Queen. Beside the haughty protector, have we Beaufort The imperious churchman, Somerset, Buckingham, The grumbling York; and not the least of these But can do more in England than the king.
In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair!
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested. You stayed well by 't in Egypt.
Five year! by'r lady, a long lease for the clinking of pewter.   But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant as to play the coward with thy indenture and show it a fair pair of heels and run from it?
Comfort, my sovereign!   gracious Henry, comfort!
By the Lord, thou sayest true, lad. And is not my hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench?
What say'st thou, man, before dead Henry's corse? Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
What! is my Lord of Winchester install'd, And call'd unto a cardinal's degree? Then I perceive that will be verified Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy, 'If once he come to be a cardinal, He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
And what of that?
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
Thou whoreson mad compound of majesty, by this light flesh and corrupt blood, thou art welcome.
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence; And once again proclaim us king of England. You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow: Now stops thy spring; my sea shall suck them dry, And swell so much the higher by their ebb. Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak. And, lords, towards Coventry bend we our course, Where peremptory Warwick now remains: The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay, Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
I will do my good will, sir: you can have no more.
What power is in Agrippa, If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,' To make this good ?
How now, fellow! wouldst any thing with me?
And I: and now we three have spoke it, It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
Oh, if that be all, I can picke ope your locks.
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
'Tis true, indeed; so your daughter says: 'Shall I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
My lord, where are you? what devise you on? Shall we give over Orleans, or no?
Not to be gone from hence; for once I read That stout Pendragon in his litter sick Came to the field and vanquished his foes: Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts, Because I ever found them as myself.
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
The gods best know,
A persecutor, I am sure, thou art: If murdering innocents be executing, Why, then thou art an executioner.
Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
Not I.
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
But yet, madam
Nay, it's no matter for that.
'Tis York that hath more reason for his death. But, my lord cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk, Say as you think, and speak it from your souls, Were 't not all one, an empty eagle were set To guard the chicken from a hungry kite, As place Duke Humphrey for the king's protector?
Look in a glass, and call thy image so: I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor. Call hither to the stake my two brave bears, That with the very shaking of their chains They may astonish these fell-lurking curs: Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
As fat as butter.
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an invincible spirit: but it shall be convenient, Master Hume, that you be by her aloft, while we be busy below; and so, I pray you, go, in God's name, and leave us. Mother Jourdain, be you prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell, read you; and let us to our work. Enter Duchess aloft, HUME following. 
Think you so?   Which way do you judge my wit would fly?
In my chamber-window lies a book: bring it hither to me in the orchard.
Yes, Pole.
A foutre for the world and worldlings base! I speak of Africa and golden joys.
Come, my masters, let us share, and then to horse before day. An the Prince and Poins be not two arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there's no more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.
The more villaine he to keep me thus:
Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success: some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is not to be recovered.
Well, I'll go with thee: provide us all things necessary and meet me to-morrow  night in Eastcheap; there I'll sup. Farewell.
He that flies so will ne'er return again.
Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus: That, in regard King Henry gives consent, Of mere compassion and of lenity, To ease your country of distressful war, And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace, You shall became true liegemen to his crown: And, Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear To pay him tribute, and submit thyself. Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him, And still enjoy thy regal dignity.
Here in my scabbard, meditating that Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
Faith, I'll bear no base mind.
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
Keep him out.
And so was mine, my lord.
You are a Roman, are you?
O, born so, master.
Is thy name Wart?
This shall with me unto the Governor.
I am accursed to rob in that thief's company:   the rascal hath removed my horse, and tied him I know not where.   If I travel but four foot by the squier further afoot, I shall break my wind.   Well, I doubt not but to die a fair death for all this, if I 'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have forsworn his company  hourly any time this two and twenty years, and yet I am bewitched with the rogue's company. If the rascal have not given me medicines.   Poins!   Hal!   a plague upon you both! Bardolph!   Peto!   I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further.   An 'twere not as good a deed as drink, to turn true man and to leave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that ever chewed with a tooth. Eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me; and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough:   a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another! Whew! A plague upon you all!   Give me my horse, you rogues; give me my horse, and be hanged!
O my son, God put it in thy mind to take it hence, That thou mightst win the more thy father's love, Pleading so wisely in excuse of it! Come hither, Harry, sit thou by my bed; And hear, I think, the very latest counsel That ever I shall breathe. God knows, my son, By what by-paths and indirect crook'd ways I met this crown; and I myself know well How troublesome it sat upon my head. To thee it shall descend with better quiet, Better opinion, better confirmation; For all the soil of the achievement goes With me into the earth. It seem'd in me But as an honor snatch'd with boisterous hand And I had many living to upbraid My gain of it by their assistances; Which daily grew to quarrel and to bloodshed, Wounding supposed peace: all these bold fears Thou see'st with peril I have answered; For all my reign hath been but as a scene Acting that argument: and now my death Changes the mode; for what in me was purchased, Falls upon thee in a more fairer sort; So thou the garland wear'st successively. Yet, though thou stand'st more sure than I could do, Thou art not firm enough, since griefs are green; And all my friends, which thou must make thy friends, Have but their stings and teeth newly ta'en out; By whose fell working I was first advanced And by whose power I well might lodge a fear To be again displaced: which to avoid, I cut them off; and had a purpose now, To lead out many to the Holy Land, Lest rest and lying still might make them look Too near unto my state. Therefore, my Harry, Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels; that action, hence borne out, May waste the memory of the former days. More would I, but my lungs are wasted so That strength of speech is utterly denied me. How I came by the crown, O God forgive; And grant it may with thee in true peace live!
He is a traitor; let him to the Tower, And chop away that factious pate of his.
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten. God save you, captain.
O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
And hath challenged thee.
No abuse?
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor. And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds: She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs, She'll gallop far enough to her destruction. Re-enter GLOUCESTER. 
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
All take hands. Make battery to our ears with the loud music: The while I'll place you: then the boy shall sing; The holding every man shall bear as loud As his strong sides can volley.  THE SONG. Come, thou monarch of the vine, Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne! In thy fats our cares be drown'd, With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd: Cup us, till the world go round, Cup us, till the world go round!
Come, come, you are well understood to be a perfecter giber for the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol.
Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands, That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent, Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man. Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine, See if thou canst outface me with thy looks: Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser; Thy hand is but a finger to my fist, Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon; My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast; And if mine arm be heaved in the air, Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth. As for words, whose greatness answers words, Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh What it is worth embraced.
Go to; I have spoke at a word. God keep you.
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud And blow it to the source from whence it came: The very beams will dry those vapours up, For every cloud engenders not a storm.
My general cares not for you. Back, I say, go; lest I let forth your half-pint of blood; back,that's the utmost of your having: back.
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the man, I think, that shall set them in present action. So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
At Southam I did leave him with his forces, And do expect him here some two hours hence.
Against ill chances men are ever merry; But heaviness foreruns the good event.
Doth the king call?
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
What would your grace have done
unto him now?
Saint George and victory! fight, soldiers, fight: The regent hath with Talbot broke his word And left us to the rage of France his sword. Where is John Talbot?   Pause, and take thy breath; I gave thee life and rescued thee from death.
Hear me, my liege: For mine own part, I could be well content To entertain the lag-end of my life With quiet hours; for I do protest, I have not sought the day of this dislike.
What is he that you ask for, niece?
So other foes may set upon our backs. Stand we in good array: for they no doubt Will issue out again and bid us battle: If not, the city being but of small defence, We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
Bring forth that sorceress condemn'd to burn.
Your highness shall do well to grant her suit; It were dishonour to deny it her.
I scorne the Peasant, tell him so.
Item, A capon, .      .   . 2s. 2d. Item, Sauce, .                4d. Item, Sack, two gallons, 5s. 8d. Item, Anchovies and sack after supper, .   .   .   2s. 6d. Item, Bread       .      .         ob.
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no, Dispute not that: York is the worthier.
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay. And I the rather wean me from despair For love of Edward's offspring in my womb: This is it that makes me bridle passion And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross; Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs, Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil By telling truth: tell truth and shame the devil. If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither, And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence. O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!
Now, signior, where's the count? did you see him?
Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
Most meet That first we come to words; and therefore have we Our written purposes before us sent; Which, if thou hast consider'd, let us know If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword, And carry back to Sicily much tall youth That else must perish here.
I like this fair proceeding of the king's: He hath intent his wonted followers Shall all be very well provided for; But all are banish'd till their conversations Appear more wise and modest to the world.
Discover more at large what cause that was, For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
That year, indeed, he was troubled with a rheum; What willingly he did confound he wail'd, Believe 't, till I wept too.
Take her away; I do not like her now; To prison with her: and away with him. Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring, Thou diest within this hour.
Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there by any matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your fellows' counsels and your own; and good night. Come, neighbor.
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care, Here sits a king more woful than you are. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, the PRINCE, and EXETER. 
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money, I would she did as you say.
Yea, there thou makest me sad and makest me sin In envy that my Lord Northumberland Should be the father to so blest a son, A son who is the theme of honour's tongue; Amongst a grove, the very straightest plant; Who is sweet Fortune's minion and her pride: Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him, See riot and dishonour stain the brow Of my young Harry. O that it could be proved That some night-tripping fairy had exchanged In cradle-clothes our children where they lay, And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet! Then would I have his Harry, and he mine. But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz, Of this young Percy's pride? the prisoners, Which he in this adventure hath surprised, To his own use he keeps; and sends me word, I shall have none but Mordake Earl of Fife.
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his reports for me.
Wine, wine, wine! What service is here! I think our fellows are asleep. Enter a second Servingman. 
Peace, good pint-pot; peace, good tickle-brain. Harry, I do not only marvel where thou spendest thy time, but also how thou art accompanied: for though the camomile, the more it is trodden on the faster it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted the sooner it wears.   That thou art my son, I have partly thy mother's word, partly my own opinion, but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a foolish hanging of thy nether lip, that doth warrant me.   If then thou be son to me, here lies the point; why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries?  a question not to be asked. Shall the son of England prove a thief and take purses? a question to be asked.   There is a thing, Harry, which thou hast often heard of and it is known to many in our land by the name of pitch: this pitch, as ancient writers do report, doth defile; so doth the company thou keepest:  for, Harry, now   I do not speak to thee in drink but in tears, not in pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in woes also: and yet there is a virtuous man whom I have often noted in thy company, but I know not his name.
O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he says he has a stratagem for't: when your lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be melted, if you give him not John Drum's entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed. Here he comes.
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request; No, if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
Is it not strange, Canidius, That from Tarentum and Brundusium He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea, And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet ?
Shall I tell thee one thing, Poins?
But I am sure the younger of our nature, That surfeit on their ease, will day by day Come here for physic.
'Twas by rebellion against his king.
Good morrow, honest gentlemen: I beseech you, which is Justice Shallow?
You know he does.
Let me have your hand: I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would not prophesy so.
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee, get us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for it drizzles rain; and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
You follow the young prince up and down, like his ill angel.
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
My queen and son are gone to France for aid; And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister To wife for Edward: if this news be true, Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost; For Warwick is a subtle orator, And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words. By this account then Margaret may win him; For she's a woman to be pitied much: Her sighs will make a battery in his breast; Her tears will pierce into a marble heart; The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn; And Nero will be tainted with remorse, To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears. Ay, but she's come to beg, Warwick, to give; She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry, He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward. She weeps, and says her Henry is deposed; He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd; That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more; Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong, Inferreth arguments of mighty strength, And in conclusion wins the king from her, With promise of his sister, and what else, To strengthen and support King Edward's place. O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul, Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
What prince is that?
Four of which you please.
Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance, That we for thee may glorify the Lord. What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?
Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
A good rebuke, Which might have well becomed the best of men, To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we Will fight with him by sea.
And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose, As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate, Will I for ever and my faction wear, Until it wither with me to my grave. Or flourish to the height of my degree.
Well, sir, good night.
You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are, We might recover all our loss again: The queen from France hath brought a puissant power: Even now we heard the news; ah, couldst thou fly!
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
Stand by, my masters: bring him near the king; His highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature, Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness Lay a more noble thought upon mine honor Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Such aid as I can spare you shall command; But I am troubled here with them myself; The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower. But get you to Smithfield and gather head, And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe; Fight for your king, your country and your lives; And so, farewell, for I must hence again.
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown; And pray that I may repossess the crown.
To help King Edward in his time of storm, As every loyal subject ought to do.
I would his majesty had call'd me with him: The service that I truly did his life Hath left me open to all injuries.
In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
What thing, in honor, had my father lost, That need to be revived and breathed in me? The king that loved him, as the state stood then, Was force perforce compell'd to banish him: And then that Henry Bolingbroke and he, Being mounted and both roused in their seats, Their neighing coursers daring of the spur, Their armed staves in charge, their beavers down, Their eyes of fire sparkling through sights of steel And the loud trumpet blowing them together, Then, then, when there was nothing could have stay'd My father from the breast of Bolingbroke, O, when the king did throw his warder down, His own life hung upon the staff he threw; Then threw he down himself and all their lives That by indictment and by dint of sword Have since miscarried under Bolingbroke.
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go, call him forth.
Come, sir, which men shall I have?
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go; and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of a knave.
Directitude! what's that?
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten Your generals after.
Those girls of Italy, take heed of them: They say, our French lack language to deny, If they demand: beware of being captives, Before you serve.
And friends with Csar.
Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't or no, the velvet knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of velvet: his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
Why, then I see A very valiant rebel of the name. I am the Prince of Wales; and think not, Percy, To share with me in glory any more: Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere; Nor can one England brook a double reign, Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
I would I had; so I had broke thy pate, And ask'd thee mercy for't.
Damnable both-sides rogue!
As surely as my soul intends to live With that dread King that took our state upon him To free us from his father's wrathful curse, I do believe that violent hands were laid Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke.
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made, And what a pitch she flew above the rest! To see how God in all his creatures works! Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
Good Master Corporate Bardolph, stand my friend; and here's four Harry ten shillings in French crowns for you. In very truth, sir, I had as lief be hanged, sir, as go: and yet, for mine own part, sir, I do not care; but rather, because I am unwilling, and, for mine own part, have a desire to stay with my friends; else, sir, I did not care, for mine own part, so much.
Mine, boy? not till King Henry be dead.
And I.
Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms, Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise More venturous or desperate than this.
Madam ?
Renowned queen, with patience calm the storm, While we bethink a means to break it off.
The queen, my lord, the queen.
Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us, That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
For worms, brave Percy: fare thee well, great heart! Ill-weaved ambition, how much thou art shrunk! When that this body did contain a spirit, A kingdom for it was too small a bound; But now two paces of the vilest earth Is room enough: this earth that bears thee dead Bears not alive so stout a gentleman. If thou wert senesible of courtesy, I should not make so dear a show of zeal: But let my favours hide thy mangled face; And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself For doing these fair rites of tenderness. Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven! Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave, But not remember'd in thy epitaph! What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell! I could have better spared a better man: O, I should have a heavy miss of thee, If I were much in love with vanity Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day, Though many dearer, in this bloody fray. Embowell'd will I see thee by and by: Till then in blood by noble Percy lie. [Exit.  
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too! marry, and amen!   Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I lead this life long, I'll sew nether stocks and mend them and foot them too.   A   plague of all cowards! Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
In every thing but in loving Benedick.
Read on.
Pray doe, and let me help you, master  .  Mr.  Pray let me taste first.
Nor his?
Speak, captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
How understand we that?
Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand, I scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul! In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage And like a hermit overpass'd thy days. Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast; And what I do imagine let that rest. Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself Will see his burial better than his life. Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer, Choked with ambition of the meaner sort: And for these wrongs, those bitter injuries, Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house, I doubt not but with honour to redress; And therefore haste I to the parliament, Either to be restored to my blood, Or make my ill the advantage of my good. Exit. 
Mass, and my elbow itched; I thought there would a scab follow.
Prithee, do, Jack.
Fair one, I think not so.
We shall all follow, cousin.
Then let my father's blood open it again: He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay: May it please your highness to resolve me now; And what your pleasure is, shall satisfy me.
I see a good amendment of life in thee; from praying to purse-taking.
By the mass, I could anger her to the heart. She was then a bona-roba. Doth she hold her own well?
Serve God, love me and mend. There will I leave you too, for here comes one in haste.
Madam, in Rome; I look'd her in the face, and saw her led Between her brother and Mark Antony.
I carried the broth that poyson'd the Nuns, and he var:#I,] ~ ^# var:#snicle...fast] snickle hand to fist Dd2, 3 (<I>qy</I>); snicle hard and fast C 
(<I>qy</I>)#  and I  ,     snicle  snickle   hand  hard   too  to  and   fast  fist  fist  , strangled a Fryar.
Hath the count all this intelligence?
What stops my lord? shall I not hear my task?
How far off is our brother Montague? Where is the post that came from Montague?
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight; For by his death we do perceive his guilt: And God in justice hath reveal'd to us The truth and innocence of this poor fellow, Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully. Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
Let's raise the siege: why live we idly here? Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear: Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury: And he may well in fretting spend his gall, Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
Flat burglary as ever was committed.
Health and glad tidings to your majesty!
Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the list of too cold an adieu: be more expressive to them: for they wear themselves in the cap of the time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and move under the influence of the most received star; and though the devil lead the measure, such are to be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
Shall dunghill curs confront the Helicons? And shall good news be baffled? Then, Pistol, lay thy head in Furies' lap.
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
'Tis said, man; and farewell.
He is a very proper man. 
Ah, Nell, forbear! thou aimest all awry; I must offend before I be attainted; And had I twenty times so many foes, And each of them   had twenty times their power, All these could not procure me any scathe, So long as I am loyal, true and crimeless. Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach? Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away, But I in danger for the breach of law. Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell: I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience; These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
No, no:
My knight, I will inflame thy noble liver, And make thee rage. Thy Doll, and Helen of thy noble thoughts, Is in base durance and contagious prison; Haled thither By most mechanical and dirty hand: Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell Alecto's snake, For Doll is in.   Pistol speaks nought but truth.
Ay, God Almighty help me!
Why, that will I.
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
No, I'le send by word of mouth now; Bid him deliver thee a thousand Crownes, by the same token, that the Nuns lov'd Rice, that Fryar Bernardine slept in his owne clothes  .  ,   var:#clothes.] ~,#  Any of 'em will doe it.
Come hither, England's hope. If secret powers Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts, This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss. His looks are full of peaceful majesty, His head by nature framed to wear a crown, His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself Likely in time to bless a regal throne. Make much of him, my lords, for this is he Must help you more than you are hurt by me. Enter a Post. 
Nay, blush not, Cleopatra; I approve Your wisdom in the deed.
That's all the fault: I spoke with her but once And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her, By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind, Tokens and letters which she did re-send; And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature: Will you go see her?
Case ye, case ye; on with your vizards: there's money of the king's coming down the hill; 'tis going to the king's exchequer. 
Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room. Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA, and others, masked.  
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty.
Me they concern; Regent I am of France. Give me my steel'd coat. I'll fight for France. Away with these disgraceful wailing robes! Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes, To weep their intermissive miseries.
But, soft, I pray you; did King Richard then Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer Heir to the crown?
Of York, is it not?
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke. Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace, Pardon and terms of love to all of you? And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary? Misuse the tenour of thy kinsman's trust? Three knights upon our party slain to-day, A noble earl and many a creature else Had been alive this hour, If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
I pawn'd thee none: I promised you redress of these same grievances Whereof you did complain; which, by mine honour, I will perform with a most Christian care. But for you, rebels, look to taste the due Meet for rebellion and such acts as yours. Most shallowly did you these arms commence, Fondly brought here and foolishly sent hence. Strike up our drums, pursue the scatter'd stray: God, and not we, hath safely fought to-day. Some guard these traitors to the block of death, Treason's true bed and yielder up of breath.
A very fine one: O, how he loves Csar !
Nay, if you have not, to it again; We will stay your leisure.
O, sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of work; which not to have been blest withal would have discredited your  travel.
Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry that I may repent.
To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
Peace! Not Csar's valor hath o'erthrown Antony, But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
Tut, I came not to hear this.
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith, you say honestly.
'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend What further comes.
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart: What valour were it, when a cur doth grin, For one to thrust his hand between his teeth, When he might spurn him with his foot away? It is war's prize to take all vantages; And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
What's the matter?
Thy cruelty in execution Upon offenders hath exceeded law And left thee to the mercy of the law.
You speak as having power to do wrong: but answer in the effect of your reputation, and satisfy the poor woman.
Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock; Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
Why, thou globe of sinful continents,  what a life dost thou lead!
Fare you well, gentle gentlemen. On, Bardolph; lead the men away. [Exeunt Bardolph, Recruits, &c.] As I return, I will fetch off these justices: I do see the bottom of Justice Shallow. Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this vice of lying!  This same starved justice hath done nothing  but prate to me of the wildness of his youth, and the feats he hath done about Turnbull  Street; and every third word a lie, duer paid to the hearer than the Turk's tribute. I do remember him at Clement's Inn like a man made after supper of a cheese-paring: when a' was naked, he was, for all the world, like a forked radish, with a head fantastically carved upon it with a knife: a' was so forlorn, that his dimensions to any thick sight were invincible:  a' was the very genius of famine; yet lecherous as a monkey, and the whores called him mandrake: a' came ever in the rearward of the fashion, and sung those tunes to the overscutched huswives that he heard the carmen  whistle, and swear they were his fancies or his good-nights. And now is this Vice's dagger become a squire, and talks as familiarly of John a Gaunt as if he had been sworn brother to him; and I'll be sworn a' ne'er saw him but once in the Tilt-yard; and then he burst his head for crowding among the marshal's men. I saw it, and told John a Gaunt he beat his own name; for you might have thrust him and all his apparel into an eel-skin; the case of a treble hautboy was a mansion for him, a court: and now has he land and beefs. Well, I'll be acquainted with him, if I return; and it shall go hard but I will make him a philosopher's  two stones to me: if the young dace be a bait for the old pike, I see no reason in the law of nature but I may snap at him. Let time shape, and there an end. [Exit.
'Tis true.
One that but performs The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest To have command obey'd.
The gods make this a happy day to Antony !
I would have sworn it had, my lord; especially against Benedick.
Where is she ?
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
Who, Hero?
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent; For on thy fortune I repose myself.
Bring him through the bands. To Thyreus  To try thy eloquence, now 'tis time: dispatch; From Antony win Cleopatra: promise, And in our name, what she requires; add more, >From thine invention, offers: women are not In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure The ne'er touch'd vestal: try thy cunning, Thyreus; Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we Will answer as a law.
Be patient, princes; you do know, these fits Are with his highness very ordinary. Stand from him, give him air; he'll straight be well.
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations; he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition. What shouts are these?   The other side o' the city is risen: why stay we prating here? to the Capitol!
'Tis not his fault, the spark.
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an't please you, deliver.
Not resolute, except so much were done; For things are often spoke and seldom meant: But that my heart accordeth with my tongue, Seeing the deed is meritorious, And to preserve my sovereign from his foe, Say but the word, and I will be his priest.
I never saw a fellow worse bested, Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant, The servant of this armourer, my lords. 
Farewell, my gracious lord; I'll to my castle.
O, Glendower.
Alas, Sir, I am a very youth.
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
Means your lordship to be married to-morrow?
Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life, And I dare well maintain it with my life, If well-respected honour bid me on, I hold as little counsel with weak fear As you my lord, or any Scot that this day lives: Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle Which of us fears.
I trust, lords, we shall lie to-night together. Now, cousin, wherefore stands our army still?
Great men have reaching hands: oft have I struck Those that I never saw and struck them dead.
Will you give me money, captain?
Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion  and him the ears of profiting, that what thou speakest may move and what he hears may be believed, that the true prince may, for recreation sake, prove a false thief; for the poor abuses of the time want countenance. Farewell: you shall find me in Eastcheap.
Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel out of a pomegranate: you are a vagabond and no true traveller:  you you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry.   You are not worth another word, else I'ld call you knave.  I leave you. 
Where's Poins, Hal?
But, ere we go, regard this dying prince, The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord, We will bestow you in some better place, Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower; Which, once discern'd, shows that her meaning is, No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke, As I have read, laid claim unto the crown; And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king, Who kept him in captivity till he died. But to the rest.
'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony loved, Now leaves him.
And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume. Therefore, my lord protector, give consent That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold. A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent, Under the countenance and confederacy Of Lady Eleanor, the protector's wife, The ringleader and head of all this rout, Have practised dangerously against your state, Dealing with witches and with conjurers: Whom we have apprehended in the fact; Raising up wicked spirits from under ground, Demanding of King Henry's life and death, And other of your highness' privy-council; As more at large your grace shall understand.
Because thy father Henry did usurp; And thou no more art prince than she is queen.
Till which encounter, It is my business too. Farewell.
And shall, sir; give's your hand.
Get you down stairs.
Nay, Warwick, single out some other chase; For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order, And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester, The special watchmen of our English weal, I would prevail, if prayers might prevail, To join your hearts in love and amity. O, what a scandal is it to our crown, That two such noble peers as ye should jar! Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell Civil dissension is a viperous worm That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth. What tumult's this?
Sir, sir,
Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners, But with proviso and exception, That we at our own charge shall ransom straight His brother-in-law, the foolish Mortimer; Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd The lives of those that he did lead to fight Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower, Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then, Be emptied to redeem a traitor home? Shall we buy treason? and indent with fears, When they have lost and forfeited themselves? No, on the barren mountains let him starve; For I shall never hold that man my friend Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
Heigh, heigh! the devil rides upon a fiddlestick: what's the matter?
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt ? See, How I convey my shame out of thine eyes By looking back what I have left behind 'Stroy'd in dishonor.
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son? And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
I have eyes upon him, And his affairs come to me on the wind. Where is he now ?
Drink thou; increase the reels.
Question: why, an hour in clamor and a quarter in rheum: therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy: and now tell me, how doth your cousin?
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a strange fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems to undertake this business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do and dares better be damned than to do't?
But to say I know more harm in him than in myself, were to say more than I know. That he is old, the more the pity, his white hairs do witness it; but that he is, saving your reverence, a whoremaster, that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault, God help the wicked! if to be old and merry be a sin, then many an old host that I know is damned: if to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine are to be loved. No, my good lord; banish Peto, banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff,  true Jack Falstaff, valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant, being, as he is, old Jack Falstaff, banish not him thy Harry's company, banish not him thy Harry's company: banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.
Are not the speedy scouts return'd again, That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
Now, Hal, what time of day is it, lad?
So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty; So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
So might my man and I hang with you for company.
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told, The words would add more anguish than the wounds. O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
That will I show you presently. How say you, madam? are you now persuaded That Talbot is but shadow of himself? These are his substance, sinews, arms and strength, With which he yoketh your rebellious necks, Razeth your cities and subverts your towns And in a moment makes them desolate.
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest, Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends, And says that once more I shall interchange My waned state for Henry's regal crown. Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas And brought desired help from Burgundy: What then remains, we being thus arrived From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York, But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
Here 'tis; here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate, That dims the honour of this warlike isle! France should have torn and rent my very heart, Before I would have yielded to this league. I never read but England's kings have had Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives; And our King Henry gives away his own, To match with her that brings no vantages.
Tell thou the earl That the Lord Bardolph doth attend him here.
Alack, alack!
'Your brooches, pearls, and ouches:' for to serve bravely is to come halting off, you know: to come off the breach with his pike bent bravely, and to surgery bravely; to ven- ture upon the charged chambers bravely,--
Why, your dolphin is not lustier: 'fore me, I speak in respect--
Well, that's set down.
Gentle, hear me: None about Csar trust but Proculeius.
Master Gower, if they become me not, he was a fool that taught them me. This is the right fencing grace, my lord; tap for tap, and so part fair.
The king's a beggar, now the play is done: All is well ended, if this be won, That you express content; which we will pay, With strife to please you, day exceeding day: Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts; Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
O, pardon me, my liege! but for my tears, The moist impediments unto my speech, I had forestall'd this dear and deep rebuke Ere you with grief had spoke and I had heard The course of it so far. There is your crown; And He that wears the crown immortally Long guard it yours! If I affect it more Than as your honor and as your renown, Let me no more from this obedience rise, Which my most inward true and duteous spirit Teacheth, this prostrate and exterior bending. God witness with me, when I here came in, And found no course of breath within your majesty, How cold it struck my heart!   If I do feign, O, let me in my present wildness die And never live to show the incredulous world The noble change that I have purposed! Coming to look on you, thinking you dead, And dead almost, my liege, to think you were, I spake unto this crown as having sense, And thus upbraided it: 'The care on thee depending Hath fed upon the body of my father; Therefore, thou best of gold art worst of gold: Other, less fine in carat, is more precious, Preserving life in medicine potable; But thou, most fine, most honor'd, most renown'd, Hast eat thy bearer up.' Thus, my most royal liege, Accusing it, I put it on my head, To try with it, as with an enemy That had before my face murder'd my father, The quarrel of a true inheritor. But if it did infect my blood with joy, Or swell my thoughts to any strain of pride; If any rebel or vain spirit of mine Did with the least affection of a welcome Give entertainment to the might of it, Let God for ever keep it from my head And make me as the poorest vassal is That doth with awe and terror kneel to it!
Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps And useth it to patronage his theft.
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague, If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand, And with thy lips keep in my soul awhile! Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood That glues my lips and will not let me speak. Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear; And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed: For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king Dismiss his power, he means to visit us, For he hath heard of our confederacy, And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him: Therefore make haste. I must go write again To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.
And you. Good night, good night.
I have not, my lord, deserved it.
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine? There's none protector of the realm but I. Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize: Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms?
Here come the heavy issue of dead Harry: O that the living Harry had the temper Of him, the worst of these three gentlemen! How many nobles then should hold their places, That must strike sail to spirits of vile sort!
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house. I will reward you for this venturous deed. The king and all the peers are here at hand. Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well, According as I gave my directions?
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs. Sirrah beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
Good faith, across: but, my good lord, 'tis thus; Will you be cured of your infirmity?
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again, And in thy thought o'er-run my former time; And, if thou canst for blushing, view this face, And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
Peace, chewet, peace!
Jew, I must ha more gold.
Father, the duke hath told the truth; Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
What, upon compulsion? 'Zounds, an I were at the strappado, or all the racks in the world, I would not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason on compulsion if reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion, I.
Indeed, you come near me now, Hal; for we that take purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not by Phoebus, he, 'that wandering knight so fair.'   And, I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art king, as, God save thy grace,majesty I should say, for grace thou wilt have none,
Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
Speak of Mortimer! 'Zounds, I will speak of him; and let my soul Want mercy, if I do not join with him: Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins, And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust, But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer As high in the air as this unthankful king, As this ingrate and canker'd Bolingbroke.
Yes, your renowned name: shall flight abuse it?
Now here a period of tumultuous broils. Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight: For Somerset, off with his guilty head. Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
But he's deceived; we are in readiness.
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
Adieu; be happy!
Tut, tut; good enough to toss; food for powder, food for powder; they'll fill a pit as well as better: tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.
This apoplexy is, as I take it, a kind of lethargy, an 't please your lordship; a kind of sleeping in the blood, a whoreson tingling.
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
The story then goes false, you threw it him Out of a casement.
This I'll report, dear lady. Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied Of him that caused it.
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
Cold-hearted toward me ?
Cousin, of many men I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave To tell you once again that at my birth The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes, The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields. These signs have mark'd me extraordinary; And all the courses of my life do show I am not in the roll of common men. Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales, Which calls me pupil, or hath read to me? And bring him out that is but woman's son Can trace me in the tedious ways of art And hold me pace in deep experiments.
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry. But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
But that your royalty Holds idleness your subject, I should take you For idleness itself.
Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious, Is to be frighted out of fear; and in that mood The dove will peck the estridge; and I see still, A diminution in our captain's brain Restores his heart: when valor preys on reason, It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek Some way to leave him.
What the devil should move me to undertake the recovery of this drum, being not ignorant of the impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose?   I must give myself some hurts, and say I got them in exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great ones I dare not give. Wherefore, what's the instance? Tongue, I must put you into a butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
Marry, that he had received thousand ducats of Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
That we have, that we have, that we have; in faith, Sir John, we have: our watchword was 'Hem boys!' Come, let's to dinner; come, let's to dinner: Jesus, the days that we have seenl Come. come.
My lord, we will do so.
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit Should, if a coward heard her speak these words, Infuse his breast with magnanimity And make him, naked, foil a man at arms. I speak not this as doubting any here; For did I but suspect a fearful man, He should have leave to go away betimes, Lest in our need he might infect another And make him of like spirit to himself. If any such be here--as God forbid!-- Let him depart before we need his help.
You have made shift to run into't, boots and spurs and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer question for your residence.
Was this fair face the cause, quoth she, Why the Grecians sacked Troy? Fond done, done fond, Was this King Priam's joy? With that she sighed as she stood, With that she sighed as she stood, And gave this sentence then; Among nine bad if one be good, Among nine bad if one be good, There's yet one good in ten.
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
I go, my lord, in heart desiring still You may behold confusion of your foes. Enter VERNON and BASSET. 
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway, To whom the heavens in thy nativity Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown, As likely to be blest in peace and war; And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
It is great sin to swear unto a sin, But greater sin to keep a sinful oath. Who can be bound by any solemn vow To do a murderous deed, to rob a man, To force a spotless virgin's chastity, To reave the orphan of his patrimony, To wring the widow from her custom'd right, And have no other reason for this wrong But that he was bound by a solemn oath?
Dear master, I can go no further: O, I die for food! Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell, kind master.
Serv. Who, my master?
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the prince's subjects.

You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.
What! shall we have incision? shall we imbrue? Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days! Why, then, let grievous, ghastly, gaping wounds Untwine the Sisters Three!  Come Atropos, I say!
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses; 'O sweet Benedick! God give me patience!'
Let Richard be restored to his blood; So shall his father's wrongs be recompensed.
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim: Till then, 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier: so they sell bullocks. But did you think the prince would have served you thus?
Here is my hand, the deed is worthy doing.
So is the fame. Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it: Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we The business we have talk'd of.
What! has your king married the Lady Grey? And now, to soothe your forgery and his, Sends me a paper to persuade me patience? Is this the alliance that he seeks with France? Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
I'll yet follow The wounded chance of Antony, though my reason Sits in the wind against me.
Nephew, what means this passionate discourse, This peroration with such circumstance? For France, 'tis ours; and we will keep it still.
With all my heart, my lord.
It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
Nay, he nods at us, as who should say, I'll be even with you: I'll see if his head will stand steadier on a pole, or no. Take him away, and behead him.
This in the public eye ?
Will you not, sons?
Forsake thy seat, I do beseech thee, captain, And hear me speak a word.
Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it; And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles, You are come to Sandal in a happy hour; The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
Yea, but Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up With like advantage on the other side; Gelding the opposed continent as much As on the other side it takes from you.
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear what a' will say. 
In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shall come over it; for, in most comely truth, thou deservest it.
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you: you shall know now that I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment with him, if thou standest not i' the state of hanging, or of some death more long in spectatorship, and crueller in suffering; behold now presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee. hourly synod about thy particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son! thou art preparing fire for us; look thee, here's water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to thee; but being assured none but myself could move thee, I have been blown out of your gates with sighs; and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here,this, who, like a block, hath denied my access to thee.
Where sups he? doth the old boar feed in the old frank?
What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted! Thrice is he arm'd that hath his quarrel just, And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel, Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
Antony only, that would make his will Lord of his reason. What though you fled >From that great face of war, whose several ranges Frighted each other ? why should he follow ? The itch of his affection should not then Have nick'd his captainship; at such a point, When half to half the world opposed, he being The meered question: 'twas a shame no less Than was his loss, to course your flying flags, And leave his navy gazing.
And did he not, in his protectorship, Levy great sums of money through the realm For soldiers' pay in France, and never sent it? By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
Search out thy wit for secret policies, And we will make thee famous through the world.
They know their duties.
I shall take it, sir: we have used our throats in Egypt.
Let her know't. To the boy Csar send this grizzled head, And he will fill thy wishes to the brim With principalities.
Yes, faith; and let it be an excellent good thing.
If it be possible for you to displace it with your little finger, there is some hope the ladies of Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him. But I say there is no hope in't; our throats are sentenced and stay upon execution.
Now, my dearest queen,
The king himself; who, Douglas, grieves at heart So many of his shadows thou hast met And not the very king. I have two boys Seek Percy and thyself about the field: But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily, I will assay thee: so, defend thyself.
My noble father, Three times to-day I holp him to his horse. Three times bestrid him; thrice I led him off, Persuaded him from any further act: But still, where danger was, still there I met him; And like rich hangings in a homely house, So was his will in his old feeble body. But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends Have shaken Edward from the regal seat, And turn'd my captive state to liberty, My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys, At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
There is not a white hair on your face but should have his effect of gravity.
Your enigma?
Come then, here's the marketplace;  whats the price of  What price is on   var:#Turkes] <I>Turke</I> Q, Rg#  this slave, two hundred Crowns? Do the  Turkes  Turke  weigh so much?
Now, lords, my choler being overblown With walking once about the quadrangle, I come to talk of commonwealth affairs. As for your spiteful false objections, Prove them, and I lie open to the law: But God in mercy so deal with my soul, As I in duty love my king and country! But, to the matter that we have in hand: I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man To be your regent in the realm of France.
Sir, his wife some two months since fled from his house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing, the tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and now she sings in heaven.
So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
About the mount Misenum.
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great, I doubt not, uncle, of our victory. Many a battle have I won in France, When as the enemy hath been ten to one: Why should I not now have the like success?
You are right, justice, and you weigh this well; Therefore still bear the balance and the sword: And I do wish your honors may increase, Till you do live to see a son of mine Offend you and obey you, as I did. So shall I live to speak my father's words: 'Happy am I, that have a man so bold, That dares do justice on my proper son; And not less happy, having such a son, That would deliver up his greatness so Into the hands of justice.' You did commit me: For which, I do commit into your hand The unstained sword that you have used to bear; With this remembrance, that you use the same With the like bold, just and impartial spirit As you have done 'gainst me. There is my hand. You shall be as a father to my youth: My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear, And I will stoop and humble my intents To your well-practised wise directions. And, princes all, believe me, I beseech you; My father is gone wild into his grave, For in his tomb lie my affections; And with his spirit sadly I survive, To mock the expectation of the world, To frustrate prophecies and to raze out Rotten opinion, who hath writ me down After my seeming. The tide of blood in me Hath proudly flow'd in vanity till now: How doth it turn and ebb back to the sea, Where it shall mingle with the state of floods And flow henceforth in formal majesty. Now call we our high court of parliament: And let us choose such limbs of noble counsel, That the great body of our state may go In equal rank with the best govern'd nation; That war, or peace, or both at once, may be As things acquainted and familiar to us; In which you, father, shall have foremost hand. Our coronation done, we will accite, As I before remember'd, all our state: And, God consigning to my good intents, No prince nor peer shall have just cause to say, God shorten Harry's happy life one day!
Pray thee, go down.
They do retire.
He is, my lord, an hour ago.
Upon  mine  my  owne free hold within  fortie  40    foot  feet  of the gallowes, conning his neck-verse I take it, looking of a Fryars Execution, whom I saluted with an old hempen proverb, Hodie  tibi, cras mihi , and so I left him to the mercy of 
the Hangman: but the Exercise being done, see where he comes.
As nail in door: the things I speak are just.
No.
Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster, to my brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland. Go, Peto, to horse, to horse; for thou and I have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time. [Exit Peto.]  Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two o'clock in the afternoon. There shalt thou know thy charge; and there receive Money and order for their furniture. The land is burning; Percy stands on high; And either we or they must lower lie. [Exit. 
Thank you.
What manner of man is he?
That kisse againe; she runs division of my lips. What an eye she casts on me? It twinckles like a Starre.
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right, Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree? For shame! leave Henry, and call Edward king.
My Lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope That you will clear yourself from all suspect: My conscience tells me you are innocent.
Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
At the old place, my lord, in East  cheap.
I cannot well perceive how, unless you should give me your doublet and stuff me out with straw. I beseech you, good Sir John, let me have five hundred of my thousand.
And will you credit this base drudge's words, That speaks he knows not what?
Sir, the queen.
Yea, but I doubt they will be too hard for us.
What's Antony ? The god of Jupiter.
Unless my study and my books be false, The argument you held was wrong in you; In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
By'r lady, I think a' be, but goodman Puff of Barson.
I do embrace thee, as I would embrace The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace: if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
If not, we ready are to try our fortunes To the last man.
I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose fellows are these that come after?
It is but as a body yet distemper'd; Which to his former strength may be restored With good advice and little medicine: My Lord Northumberland will soon be cool'd.
Coward of France! how much he wrongs his fame, Despairing of his own arm's fortitude, To join with witches and the help of hell!
But I have sent for him to answer this; And for this cause awhile we must neglect Our holy purpose to Jerusalem. Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we Will hold at Windsor; so inform the lords: But come yourself with speed to us again; For more is to be said and to be done Than out of anger can be uttered.
Ay, to such mercy as this ruthless arm, With downright payment, show'd unto my father. Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car, And made an evening at the noontide prick.
Most certain.
Who's gone this morning?
I know not, Menas, How lesser enmities may give way to greater. Were't not that we stand up against them all, 'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves; For they have entertained cause enough To draw their swords: but how the fear of us May cement their divisions and bind up The petty difference, we yet not know. Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands. Come, Menas.
O, quick, or I am gone.
A plague upon him! muffled! he can say nothing of me: hush, hush!
You of my household, leave this peevish broil And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
Who is there? Take this fellow in, and send for his master with a pursuivant presently; we'll hear more of your matter before the king. [Exit Servant with Peter. 
I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword clean, nor believe he can have every thing in him by wearing his apparel neatly.
Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have To bid his young son welcome to his grave? Away! vexation almost stops my breath, That sunder'd friends greet in the hour of death. Lucy, farewell: no more my fortune can, But curse the cause I cannot aid the man. Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away, 'Long all of Somerset and his delay.
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery, Our trusty friend, unless I be deceived.
In your behalf still will I wear the same.
Peace, I say ! What should this mean ?
But ten? I'le not leave him worth a gray groat  .  ,    Give  give  me a Reame of paper, we'll have a kingdome of gold for't.
Not the ill wind which blows no man to good. Sweet knight, thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm.
The young prince hath misled me: I am the fellow with the great belly, and he my dog.
Davy!
What would my lord and father?
What men?
Well, be honest, be honest, and God bless your expedition!
Warlike and martial Talbot, Burgundy Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
So I will, sir.
My gracious father, by your kingly leave, I'll draw it as apparent to the crown, And in that quarrel use it to the death.
Here, sir.
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay: These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my nose; or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get thee further.
Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?
Would you praise Csar, say 'Csar: ' go no further.
No more of that, good Master Shallow,  no more of that.
Pray thee, peace. Pay her the debt you owe her, and unpay the villany you have done her: the one you may do with sterling money, and the other with current repentance.
I would your highness would depart the field: The queen hath best success when you are absent.
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue was guilty of.
Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and the bricks are alive at this day to testify it; therefore deny it not.
To be hanged.
No.
Is Claudio thine enemy?
Well, well, come on: who else?
And so will I.
In Trace ; brought up in Arabia .
My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answer'd: But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge, Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself. I do arrest you in his highness' name; And here commit you to my lord cardinal To keep, until your further time of trial.
'Tis known already that I am possess'd With more than half the Gallian territories, And therein reverenced for their lawful king: Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd, Detract so much from that prerogative, As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole? No, lord ambassador, I'll rather keep That which I have than, coveting for more, Be cast from possibility of all.
Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like Never to hold it up again! the spirits Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt, are in my arms: It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee; Who never promiseth but he means to pay. Cheerly, my lord: how fares your grace? Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succour sent, And so hath Clifton: I'll to Clifton straight.
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector, Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
Oh that ten thousand nights were put in one, var:#Q <I>lines</I>: afore | We#  That wee might sleepe seven yeeres together afore    w  W e wake.
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again, and the man in blood, they will out of their burrows, like conies after rain, and revel all with him.
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
Even to the next willow, about your own business, county. What fashion will you wear the garland of? about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear it one way, for the prince hath got your Hero. 
Thou has the most unsavoury similes and art indeed the most comparative, rascalliest,  sweet young Prince. But Hal, I prithee, trouble me no more with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew where a commodity  of good names were to be bought. An old lord of the council rated me the other day in the street about you, sir, but I marked him not; and yet he talked very wisely, but I regarded him not; and yet he talked wisely, and in the street too.
Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
What a young knave, and begging! Is there not wars? is there not employment? doth not the king lack subjects? do not the rebels need soldiers? Though it be a shame to be on any side but one, it is worse shame to beg than to be on the worst side, were it worse than the name of rebellion can tell how to make it.
My lord, my lord, the French have gather'd head: The Dauphin, with one Joan la Pucelle join'd, A holy phophetess new risen up, Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
Thrice-nobler than myself! Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros Have by their brave instruction got upon me A nobleness in record: but I will be A bridegroom in my death, and run into't As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros, Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus I learn'd of thee. How ! not dead ? not dead ? The guard, ho! O, dispatch me! Enter DERCETAS and Guard. 
I'll hear no more: die, prophet, in thy speech: For this, amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
Swearest thou, ungracious boy? henceforth ne'er look on me. Thou art violently  carried away from grace: there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man; a tun of man is thy companion. Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humours, that bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed cloak-bag of guts, that roasted Manning-tree ox with the pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that grey iniquity, that father  ruffian, that vanity in years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and drink it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a capon and eat it? wherein cunning, but in craft? wherein crafty, but in villany? wherein villanous,  but in all things? wherein worthy, but in nothing?
To him again: tell him he wears the rose Of youth upon him; from which the world should note Something particular: his coin, ships, legions, May be a coward's; whose ministers would prevail Under the service of a child as soon As i' the command of Csar: I dare him therefore To lay his gay comparisons apart, And answer me declined, sword against sword, Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
If thou be'st death, I'll give thee England's treasure, Enough to purchase such another island, So thou wilt let me live, and feel no pain.
Pay the musicians, sirrah. Farewell, hostess; farewell, Doll. You see, my good wenches, how men of merit are sought after: the undeserver may sleep, when the man of action is called on. Farewell, good wenches: if I be not sent away post, I will see you again ere I go.
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends. So, look about you: know you any here?
And why not as the lion?
I pray thee now, deliver them like a man of this world.
A crown's worth of good interpretation: there 'tis, boy.
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
Take your time.
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on? What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
Ay, my good lord, he's dead.
I grant your worship that he is a knave, sir; but yet, God forbid, sir, but a knave should have some countenance at his friend's request. An honest man, sir, is able to speak for himself, when a knave is not. I have served your worship truly, sir, this eight years; and if I cannot once or twice in a quarter bear out a knave against an honest man, I have but a very little credit with your worship. The knave is mine honest friend, sir; therefore, I beseech your worship, let him be countenanced.
Mowbray, you overween to take it so; This offer comes from mercy, not from fear: For, lo! within a ken our army lies, Upon mine honour, all too confident To give admittance to a thought of fear. Our battle is more full of names than yours, Our men more perfect in the use of arms, Our armor all as strong, our cause the best; Then reason will our heart should be as good: Say you not then our offer is compell'd.
No, stir not, for your lives; let her pass by.
Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see Danger and disobedience in thine eye: O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory, And majesty might never yet endure The moody frontier of a servant brow. You have good leave to leave us: when we need Your use and counsel, we shall send for you. You were about to speak. [To North. 
Faith, sir, a' has an English name; but his fisnomy is more hotter in France than there.
I know thou'rt valiant: and, to the possibility of thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy, I mean to prove this lady's courtesy. Come hither, captain. You perceive my mind? 
Ay, ay: away with her to execution!
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
Nay, they will be kin to us, or they will fetch it from Japhet. But to the letter.
Do not say so.
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
So much the worse, if your own rule be true.
Why, our authority is his consent, And what we do establish he confirms: Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
Where is it! taken from us it is: a hundred upon poor four of us.
I will, captain: farewell.
And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
Then like a Jew he laugh'd and jeer'd, and told me he lov'd me for your sake, and said what a faithfull servant you had bin.
What then?
First, pardon me, my lord. A hue and cry Hath follow'd certain men unto this house.
Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast; love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay, prithee, be gone. Now, Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery, lad, how is that answered?
And how accompanied? canst thou tell that?
Why, Warwick, hath thy knee forgot to bow? Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair, Thou mad misleader of thy brain-sick son? What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian, And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles? O, where is faith?   O, where is loyalty? If it be banish'd from the frosty head, Where shall it find a harbour in the earth? Wilt thou go dig a grave to find our war, And shame thine honourable age with blood? Why art thou old, and want'st experience? Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it? For shame in duty bend thy knee to me That bows unto the grave with mickle age.
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners. Deliver them up without their ransom straight, And make the Douglas' son your only mean For powers in Scotland; which, for divers reasons Which I shall send you written, be assured, Will easily be granted. You, my lord, Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd, Shall secretly into the bosom creep Of that same noble prelate, well beloved, The archbishop.
We four set upon some dozen
I am here, brother, full of heaviness.
My lord chief-justice, speak to that vain man.
Faint-hearted Woodville, prizest him 'fore me? Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate, Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook? Thou art no friend to God or to the king: Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
Or I have no observance.
Here at the palace will I rest awhile. Cousin of Exeter, what thinks your lordship? Methinks the power that Edward hath in field Should not be able to encounter mine.
And Robin Hood, Scarlet, and John.
She is cunning past man's thought.
Wilt drinke French-man, here's to thee with apox on this drunken hick-up.
I knew him.
You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady.
There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee, nor thou camest not of the blood royal, if thou darest not stand for ten shillings.
A thousand, sir, Early though't be, have on their riveted trim, And at the port expect you. Enter Captains and Soldiers. 
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house, That nothing sung but death to us and ours: Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound, And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
The trumpets have sounded twice.
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
An if it do, take it for thy labour; and if it make twenty, take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid my lieutenant Peto meet me at town's end.
So please your grace, we'll take her from the sheriff.
O no, he lives; but is took prisoner, And Lord Scales with him and Lord Hungerford: Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
'Tis 'semper idem,' for 'obsque hoc nihil est:' 'tis all in every part.
I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be fain to hang you.
'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here, In quantity equals not one of yours: See how this river comes me cranking in, And cuts me from the best of all my land A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out. I'll have the current in this place damned up; And here the smug and silver Trent shall run In a new channel, fair and evenly; It shall not wind with such a deep indent, To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
Gentleman, he flouts me, what gentry can be in a  poore   Turke of ten pence? I'le be gone.
Sup any women with him?
Welcome shall they be; And all the honours that can fly from us Shall on them settle. You know your places well; When better fall, for your avails they fell: To-morrow to the field. Exeunt. 
How art thou call'd? and what is thy degree?
Please it your grace lead on?
Why that way?
I bought him in Paul's, and he'll buy me a horse in Smithfield: an I could get me but a wife in the stews, I were manned, horsed, and wived.
If he should do so, He leaves his back unarm'd, the French and Welsh Baying him at the heels: never fear that.
Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
One word more, honest neighbors. I pray you, watch about Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night. Adieu: be vigitant, I beseech you. Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE. 
How deep?
I will, my lord; and doubt not so to deal As all things shall redound unto your good.
I remember.
Shall I prick him down, Sir John?
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me: But yet, methinks, my father's execution Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a' victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Hear ye, Yedward; if I tarry at home and go not, I'll hang you for going.
That is too much presumption on thy part: But if thy arms be to no other end, The king hath yielded unto thy demand: The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
The word of peace is render'd: hark, how they shout!
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus, they would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad voice bode no mischief. I had as lief have heard the night- raven, come what plague could have come after it.
Ah, countrymen! if when you make your prayers, God should be so obdurate as yourselves, How would it fare with your departed souls? And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
We will rather sleep than talk; we know what belongs to a watch.
Marry, I tell thee, it is not meet that I should be sad, now my father is sick: albeit I could tell to thee, as to one it pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend, I could be sad, and sad indeed too.
Good my lord, To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony, Hearing that you prepared for war, acquainted My grieved ear withal; whereon, I begg'd His pardon for return.
I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?
I cannot blame him: at my nativity The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes, Of burning cressets; and at my birth The frame and huge foundation of the earth Shaked like a coward.
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
My lord, 'tis but a base ignoble mind That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
So please your majesty, my master hath been an honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him, which gentlemen have.
Taurus !
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me: Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen And will be partner of your weal or woe.
Assist me, then, sweet Warwick, and I will; For hither we have broken in by force.
So are the horses of the enemy In general, journey-bated and brought low: The better part of ours are full of rest.
Farewell, my lord: trust not the Kentish rebels.
And may be so we shall.
'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France, And, being protector, stay'd the soldiers' pay; By means whereof his highness hath lost France.
Besides, the king hath wasted all his rods On late offenders, that he now doth lack The very instruments of chastisement: So that his power, like to a fangless lion, May offer, but not hold.
Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour; And makest conjectural fears to come into me Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so;-- And yet I know not: thou didst hate her deadly, And she is dead; which nothing, but to close Her eyes myself, could win me to believe, More than to see this ring. Take him away. My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall, Shall tax my fears of little vanity, Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him! We'll sift this matter further.
Be it with resolution then to fight.
Speak, sirs; how was it?
So shaken as we are, so wan with care, Find we a time for frighted peace to pant, And breathe short-winded accents of new broils To be commenced in strands afar remote. No more the thirsty entrance of this soil Shall daub her lips with her own children's blood; No more shall trenching war channel her fields, Nor bruise her flowers with the armed hoofs Of hostile paces: those opposed eyes, Which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven, All of one nature, of one substance bred, Did lately meet in the intestine shock And furious close of civil butchery Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks, March all one way and be no more opposed Against acquaintance, kindred and allies: The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife, No more shall cut his master.   Therefore, friends, As far as to the sepulchre of Christ, Whose soldier now, under whose blessed cross We are impressed and engaged to fight, Forthwith a power of England shall we levy; Whose arms were moulded in their mothers' womb To chase these pagans in those holy fields Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd For our advantage on the bitter cross. But this our purpose now is twelve month old, And bootless 'tis to tell you we will go: Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland, What yesternight our council did decree In forwarding this dear expedience.
But you must not now slumber in it.
Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life: thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee; thou art the Knight of the Burning Lamp.
Change it, change it; Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy; And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts But give thyself unto my sick desires, That you do charge men with.   Stand no more off, Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever My love as it begins shall persever.
Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his way.
No.
Art thou there, Diomed ? Draw thy sword, and give me Sufficing strokes for death.
Will this description satisfy him ?
Sir John, I arrest you at the suit of Mistress Quickly.
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner. When you sally upon him, speak what terrible language you will: though you understand it not yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to understand him, unless some one among us whom we must produce for an interpreter.
Gloucester, we will meet; to thy cost, be sure: Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
They are so.
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown, Which time will bring to light in smooth Duke Humphrey.
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
Good sirs I have don't, but no body knowes it but you two, I may escape.
I am assured, if I be measured rightly, Your majesty hath no just cause to hate me.
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; the people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
O, my good Lord Mowbray, Construe the times to their necessities, And you shall say indeed, it is the time, And not the king, that doth you injuries. Yet for your part, it not appears to me Either from the king or in the present time That you should have an inch of any ground To build a grief on: were you not restored To all the Duke of Norfolk's signories, Your noble and right well remember'd father's ?
Prisoner! to whom?
'Tis a strange serpent.
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from   believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care not: yet art thou good for nothing but taking up; and that thou'rt scarce worth.
Farewell!
My lord, I have consider'd with myself The title of this most renowned duke; And in my conscience do repute his grace The rightful heir to England's royal seat.
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
Come, neighbour:   that boy shall lead our horses down the hill; we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.
Here we: and if to-morrow Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up.
O Lord, sir, what do you mean?
Hold, worthy lady, hold: Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this Relieved, but not betray'd.
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noble strain, of approved valor and confirmed honesty. I will teach you how to humor your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I, with your two helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this, Cupid is no longer an archer: his glory shall be ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
A  masty  nasty  musty  slave he is  .  ;   var:#is.] ~;#  var:#masty] nasty Dd2-C, K, Ri; musty B# 
Here.
Well, that's set down.
Don Pedro is approached. 
Come hither, hostess.
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this what you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady; for you are like an honorable father.
What, ho! chamberlain!
Well, God send the prince a better companion!
Alas, sweet wife, my honour is at pawn; And, but my going, nothing can redeem it.
'Twould not do.
Your way is shorter; My purposes do draw me much about: You'll win two days upon me.
No, lady.
An thy mind stand to't boy, steal away bravely.
I think this is the most villanous  house in all London road for fleas: I am stung like a tench.
Come, come, Lord Mortimer; you are as slow As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go. By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal, And then to horse immediately.
What's the matter, sweet-heart?
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing: but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labors; which is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection the one with the other. I would fain have it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if you three will but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
He's gone into Smithfield to buy your worship a horse.
Sir John!
Then call our captains and our colours forth. And madam, at your father's castle walls We'll crave a parley, to confer with him. See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are.   When you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the wagging of your beards; and your beards deserve not so honorable a grave as to stuff a botcher's cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud; who, in a cheap estimation, is worth all your predecessors since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the best of 'em   were hereditary hangmen. God-den to your worships: more of your conversation would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you. Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA. 
I,  master  Mr.  , he's slain; look how his brains drop out on's nose.
Embowelled! if thou embowel  me to-day, I'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too to-morrow. 'Sblood, 'twas time to counterfeit, or that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot too. Counterfeit? I lie, I am no counterfeit: to die, is to be a counterfeit; for he is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man: but to counterfeit dying, when a man thereby liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and perfect image of life indeed. The better part of valour is discretion; in the which better part I have saved my life. 'Zounds, I am afraid of this gunpowder Percy, though he be dead: how, if he should counterfeit too and rise? by my faith, I am afraid he would prove the better counterfeit. Therefore I'll make him sure; yea, and I'll swear I killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I?   Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me.   Therefore, sirrah your thigh, come you along with me. [Takes up Hotspur on his back.  Re-enter the PRINCE OF WALES and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER. 
Go, hide thee behind the arras: the rest walk up above. Now, my masters, for a true face and good conscience.
His taints and honors Waged equal with him.
There I deny my land service. But give me your hand, Menas: if our eyes had authority, here they might take two thieves kissing.
My liege, this haste was hot in question, And many limits of the charge set down But yesternight: when all athwart there came A post from Wales loaden with heavy news; Whose worst was, that the noble Mortimer, Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular and wild Glendower, Was by the rude hands of that Welshman taken, A thousand of his people butchered; Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse, Such beastly shameless transformation, By those Welshwomen done as may not be Without much shame retold or spoken of.
I prithee Tom, beat Cut's saddle,  put a few flocks in the point; poor jade, is wrung in the withers out of all cess.
Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death. A cunning man did calculate my birth And told me that by water I should die: Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded; Thy name is Gualtier, being rightly sounded.
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
May I never To this good purpose, that so fairly shows, Dream of impediment ! Let me have thy hand : Further this act of grace: and from this hour The heart of brothers govern in our loves And sway our great designs!
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
'Tis noble spoken.
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
You boggle shrewdly, every feather starts you. Is this the man you speak of?
The Prince of Wales! Where is he? let me see him:
He is not here.
Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
Old, old, Master Shallow.
Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick men, When for so slight and frivolous a cause Such factious emulations shall arise! Good cousins both, of York and Somerset, Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
What is't thou say'st ?
You speak, Lord Mowbray, now you know not what. The Earl of Hereford was reputed then In England the most valiant gentleman: Who knows on whom fortune would then have smiled ? But if your father had been victor there, He ne'er had borne it out of Coventry: For all the country in a general voice Were set on Hereford, whom they doted on Cried hate upon him; and all their prayers and love And bless'd and graced indeed, more than the king. But this is mere digression from my purpose. Here come I from our princely general To know your griefs; to tell you from his grace That he will give you audience; and wherein It shall appear that your demands are just, You shall enjoy them, every thing set off That might so much as think you enemies.
You know neither me, yourselves, nor any thing.   You are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs: you wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a cause between an orange-wife and a fosset-seller; and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a second day of audience. When you are hearing a matter between party and party, if you chance to be pinched with the colic, you make faces like mummers; set up the bloody flag against all patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot, dismiss the controversy bleeding, the more entangled by your hearing: all the peace you make in their cause is, calling both the parties knaves.   You are a pair of strange ones.
Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and but twelve persons there; is this true ?
Never; he will not: Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety: other women cloy The appetites they feed: but she makes hungry Where most she satisfies; for vilest things Become themselves in her: that the holy priests Bless her when she is riggish.
But wilt thou faithfully?
He did ask favor.
Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surprised? Or is he but retired to make him strong?
Bravest at the last, She levell'd at our purposes, and, being royal, Took her own way. The manner of their deaths ? I do not see them bleed.
A fistula, my lord.
I think he's gone to hunt, my lord, at Windsor.
And a famous true subject took him.
O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
He did; myself did hear it.
Gramercy Mounsier.
Away even now, or I will drag thee hence: Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee And do some service to Duke Humphrey's ghost.
Come, thou shalt go to the wars in a gown; we will have away thy cold; and I will take such order that thy friends shall ring for thee. Is here all?
O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph, what news?
Why, how now, lords! your wrathful weapons drawn Here in our presence! dare you be so bold? Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
See now, whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us? is she of the wicked? is thine hostess here of the wicked? or is thy boy of the wicked? or honest Bardolph, whose zeal burns in his nose, of the wicked?
She creeps: Her motion and her station are as one; She shows a body rather than a life, A statue than a breather.
A rascally slave! I will toss the rogue in a blanket.
My brother general, the connmonwealth, To brother born an household cruelty, I make my quarrel in particular.
Let this dissension first be tried by fight, And then your highness shall command a peace.
Do what thou darest; I beard thee to thy face.
No, that's certain; I am not a double man: but if I be not Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy if your father do me any honour, so; if not, let him kill the next Percy himself. I look to be either earl or duke, I can assure you.
If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.
I have, my lord: and their intent is this: They humbly sue unto your excellence To have a godly peace concluded of Between the realms of England and of France.
Look you sad, friends ? The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings To wash the eyes of kings.
O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord, Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts. And may that thought, when I imagine ill Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry, Be my last breathing in this mortal world! My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
O Westmoreland, thou art a summer bird. Which ever in the haunch of winter sings The lifting up of day. Look, here's more news.
Let us alone, I warrant you.
Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion! give me your hand. How does your drum?
My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
Call for the music in the other room.
My gracious sovereign, Howe'er it pleases you to take it so, The ring was never hers.
Approach, there ! Ah, you kite ! Now, gods and devils! Authority melts from  me: of late, when I cried 'Ho !' Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth, And cry 'Your will ?' Have you no ears ? I am Antony yet. Take hence this Jack, and whip him. 
What trade art thou, Feeble?
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain, His lands then seized by the conqueror: Her suit is now to repossess those lands; Which we in justice cannot well deny, Because in quarrel of the house of York The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
Thou liest; thou art no colted, thou art uncolted.
Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now ?
Because here is a man accused of treason: Pray God the Duke of York excuse himself!
But he hath forced us to compel this offer; And it proceeds from policy, not love.
I would your grace would take me with you: whom means your grace?
I'le goe steale some mony from my Master to make me hansome: var:#see] and see C, B, K#  Pray pardon me, I must goe  see  and see  a ship discharg'd.
You wish me health in very happy season; For I am, on the sudden, something ill.
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
He that rides at high speed and with his pistol kills a sparrow flying.
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet it was against our will.
What, what, sweet-heart?
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace: Let's to the altar: heralds, wait on us: Instead of gold, we'll offer up our arms; Since arms avail not now that Henry's dead. Posterity, await for wretched years, When at their mothers' moist eyes babes shall suck, Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears, And none but women left to wail the dead. Henry the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate: Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils, Combat with adverse planets in the heavens! A far more glorious star thy soul will make Than Julius Cesar or bright--
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
I would your grace would constrain me to tell.
How intend you, practised ?
How many be there of them?
And this is mine: sweet Henry, favour him.
Go to; I stand the push of your one thing that you will tell.
Possess it, I'll make answer: But I had rather fast from all four days Than drink so much in one.
When it concerns the fool or coward. On: Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus: Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death, I hear him as he flatter'd.
To lend me arms and aid when I required them; The which you both denied.
Nay, that were a punishment too good for them, if they should have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the prince's watch.
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves; For Warwick bids you all farewell, to meet in heaven.
Away betimes, before his forces join, And take the great-grown traitor unawares: Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
'Tis very true: And therefore be assured, my good lord marshal, If we do now make our atonement well, Our peace will, like a broken limb united, Grow stronger for the breaking.
And what may follow, To try a larger fortune.
My honour's at the stake; which to defeat, I must produce my power.   Here, take her hand, Proud, scornful boy, unworthy this good gift; Thou dost in vile misprision shackle up My love and her desert; that canst not dream, We, poising us in her defective scale, Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know, It is in us to plant thine honour where We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt: Obey our will, which travails in thy good: Believe not thy disdain, but presently Do thine own fortunes that obedient right Which both thy duty owes and our power claims; Or I will throw thee from my care for ever Into the staggers and the careless lapse Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice, Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
She shall be buried with her face upwards.
What, Conrade!
I fear neither sword nor fire.
By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet: First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride; Next, if I be appointed for the place, My Lord of Somerset will keep me here, Without discharge, money, or furniture, Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands: Last time, I danced attendance on his will Till Paris was besieged, famish'd, and lost.
Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief With winged haste to the lord marshal; This is my cousin Scroop, and all the rest To whom they are directed. If you knew How much they do import, you would make haste.
Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart; Pernicious protector, dangerous peer, That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!
What, Octavia ?
Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset, Have sold their lives unto the house of York; And thou shalt be the third, if this sword hold.
Owen, Owen, the same; and his son-in-law  Mortimer; and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of Scots, Douglas, that runs o' horseback up a hill perpendicular,
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
Nay, by'r lady, that I think a' cannot.
What, drunk with choler? stay and pause awhile: Here comes your uncle.
Ay me, most wretched, That have my heart parted betwixt two friends That do afflict each other!
Give me my rapier, boy.
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee, Or any he the proudest o thy sort.
Her sight did ravish; but her grace in speech, Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty, Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys; Such is the fulness of my heart's content. Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love. Long live Queen Margaret, England's happiness!
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest Appear thus to us ?
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
Csar's sister is called Octavia.
Wondrous! ay, I warrant you, and not without his true purchasing.
I do beg your good will in this case.
Come, Margaret; God, our hope, will succour us.
Didst thou hear me?
Why, we will set forth before or after them, and appoint them a place of meeting,  wherein it is at our pleasure to fail, and then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves; which they shall have no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch That trembles under his devouring paws; And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey, And so he comes, to rend his limbs assunder. Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword, And not with such a cruel threatening look. Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die. I am too mean a subject for thy wrath: Be thou revenged on men, and let me live.
What, are the brothers parted ?
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
I know my duty; you are all undutiful: Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George, And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all I am your better, traitors as ye are: And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
Stay, and breathe awhile: Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion, And show'd thou makest some tender of my life, In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
O Lord, sir! spare not me.
How not your own desire?
Is this the monument of Leonato?
I do, I will. [Exeunt Hostess, Francis, and Bardolph.  Re-enter BARDOLPH, running. 
Then is sin struck down like an ox, and iniquity's throat cut like a calf.
A rendezvous, a home to fly unto, If that the devil and mischance look big Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
'Imprimis, It is agreed between the French king Charles, and William de la Pole, Marquess of Suffolk, ambassador for Henry King of England, that the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret, daughter unto Reignier-King of Naples, Sicilia and Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the thirtieth day of May next ensuing. Item, that the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released and delivered to the king her father'--
Sixteen at least, my lord.
Now, governor of Paris, take your oath, That you elect no other king but him; Esteem none friends but such as are his friends, And none your foes but such as shall pretend Malicious practices against his state: This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
Here comes my lord.
Because their legs are both of a bigness,  and a' plays at quoits well, and eats conger and fennel, and drinks off candles' ends for flap-dragons, and rides the wild-mare with the boys, and jumps upon joined-stools, and swears with a good grace, and wears his boots very smooth, like unto the sign of the leg, and breeds no bate with telling of discreet stories; and such other gambol faculties a' has, that show a weak mind and an able body, for the which the prince admits him: for the prince himself is such another; the weight of a hair will turn the scales between their avoirdupois.
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
I heard him swear his affection.
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
About that which concerns your grace and us; The crown of England, father, which is yours.
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot endure my Lady Tongue.
You will be whipp'd.
Yet let us all together to our troops, And give them leave to fly that will not stay; And call them pillars that will stand to us; And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards As victors wear at the Olympian games: This may plant courage in their quailing breasts; For yet is hope of life and victory. Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
No, Sir John; it is my cousin Silence, in commission with me.
Eros, Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down His corrigible neck, his face subdued To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat Of fortunate Csar, drawn before him, branded His baseness that ensued ?
Come, come, no more of that.
And she is exceeding wise.
Where is my other life? mine own is gone; O, where's young Talbot? where is valiant John? Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity, Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee: When he perceived me shrink and on my knee His bloody sword he brandish'd over me, And, like a hungry lion, did commence Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience; But when my angry guardant stood alone, Tendering my ruin and assail'd of none, Dizzy-eyed fury and great rage of heart Suddenly made him from my side to start Into the clustering battle of the French; And in that sea of blood my boy did drench His over-mounting spirit, and there died, My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride. 
O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us? Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak: How farest thou, mirror of all martial men? One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off! Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand That hath contrived this woful tragedy! In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame; Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars; Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up, His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field. Yet livest thou, Salisbury? though thy speech doth fail, One eye thou hast, to look to heaven for grace: The sun with one eye vieweth all the world. Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive, If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands! Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it. Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life? Speak unto Talbot; nay, look up to him. Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort; Thou shalt not die whiles-- He beckons with his hand and smiles on me, As who should say 'When I am dead and gone, Remember to avenge me on the French. Plantagenet, I will; and like thee, Nero, Play on the lute, beholding the towns burn: Wretched shall France be only in my name. What stir is this? what tumult's in the heavens? Whence cometh this alarum and the noise? Enter a Messenger. 
Well, I know not What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face; But in my bosom shall she never come, To make my heart her vassal.
There is many complaints, Davy, against that Visor: that Visor is an arrant knave, on my knowledge.
 You  yon   run  ran  swifter when  you  yon  threw my gold out of my
Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
Go hang, sir, hang! Tell me of that? away! Do as I bid you. Where's this cup I call'd for ?
So, sirs: now go some and pull down the Savoy; others to the inns of court; down with them all.
Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
This apoplexy will certain be his end.
Not till he hears how   Antony is touch'd With what is spoke already.
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say, she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing.
I desire no more.
For my part, noble lords, I care not which; Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
She was, indeed, a pedler's daughter, and sold many laces.
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
You will, chops?
And thou a natural coward, without  instinct.
For Italy and Csar. More, Domitius; My lord desires you presently: my news I might have told hereafter.
Sweet York, begin: and if thy claim be good, The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
Now, lords, if God doth give successful end To this debate that bleedeth at our doors, We will our youth lead on to higher fields And draw no swords but what are sanctified. Our navy is address'd, our power collected, Our substitutes in absence well invested, And every thing lies level to our wish: Only, we want a little personal strength; And pause us, till these rebels, now afoot, Come underneath the yoke of government.
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on When as the noble Duke of York was slain, Your princely father and my loving lord!
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or four score hogsheads. I have sounded the very base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am   sworn brother to a leash of drawers; and can call them all by their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis. They take it already upon their salvation, that though I be but Prince of Wales, yet I am the king of courtesy; and tell me flatly I am no proud Jack, like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a good boy, by the Lord, so they call me, and when I am king of England, I shall command all the good lads in Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dyeing scarlet; and when you breathe in your watering, they cry 'hem!' and bid you play it off. To conclude, I am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour, that I can drink with any tinker in his own language during my life. I tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost much honour, that thou wert not with me in this action. But, sweet Ned,to sweeten which name of Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped even now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that never spake other English in his life than 'Eight shillings and sixpence,' and 'You are welcome,' with this shrill addition, 'Anon, anon, sir! Score a pint of bastard in the Half-moon,' or so. But, Ned, to drive away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee, do thou stand in some by-room, while I question my puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar; and do thou never leave calling 'Francis,' that his tale to me may be nothing but 'Anon.'   Step aside, and I'll show thee a precedent.
Two, three, foure month Madam.
There's strange news come, sir.
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and Requires to live in Egypt: which not granted, He lessens his requests; and to thee sues To let him breathe between the heavens and earth, A private man in Athens: this for him. Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness; Submits her to thy might; and of thee craves The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs, Now hazarded to thy grace.
Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
These letters come from your father.
And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.
And, look, whether the fiery Trigon, his man, be not lisping to his master's old tables, his note-book, his counsel-keeper.
Christendom.
They have the more need to sleep now, then.
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
Call up the right master constable. We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth.
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
O, let no words, but deeds, revenge this treason!
Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride me, so; 'tis a point of friendship.
What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to Leonato's?
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
You see it lawful, then: it is no more, But that your daughter, ere she seems as won, Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter; In fine, delivers me to fill the time, Herself most chastely absent: after this, To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns To what is past already.
No, nor I neither: I'll be at your elbow.
Then have I substance too.
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe, Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is; But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal What law does vouch mine own.
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him: His face I know not.
Is this the scourge of France? Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad That with his name the mothers still their babes? I see report is fabulous and false: I thought I should have seen some Hercules, A second Hector, for his grim aspect, And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs. Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf! It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp Should strike such terror to his enemies.
It is more than for some, my lord; it is for all, all I have. He hath eaten me out of house and home; he hath put all my substance into that fat belly of his: but I will have some of it out again, or I will ride thee o' nights like the mare.
No, Good Captain Pistol; not here, sweet captain.
The gods grant them true!
Madam!
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
By my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant your cousin will say so.
Not a false gallop.
Prethe sweet love, one more, and write it sharp.
There's gold for thee. Thou must not take my former sharpness ill: I will employ thee back again; I find thee Most fit for business: go make thee ready; Our letters are prepared.
If not denounced against us, why should not we Be there in person ?
Why, God will send more, if the man will be thankful: let me stay the growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.
O, quietness, lady !
I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
Good your highness, patience.
I think   so, Charmian: dull of tongue, and dwarfish! What majesty is in her gait? Remember, If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly, You do not hold the method to enforce The like from him.
It must of force.
Well said.
And when good will is show'd, though't come too short, The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now: Give me mine angle; we'll to the river: there, My music playing far off, I will betray Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce Their slimy jaws; and, as I draw them up, I'll think them every one an Antony, And say 'Ah, ha! you're caught.'
O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams and Csar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and overcame:' for your brother and my sister no sooner met but they looked, no sooner looked but they loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner sighed but they asked one another the reason, no sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy; and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or else be incontinent before marriage: they are in the very wrath of love and they will together; clubs cannot part them.
O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever I see!
Half afeard to come.
It is well done, and fitting for a princess Descended of so many royal kings. Ah, soldier ! Re-enter DOLABELLA. 
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us; Else, ruin combat with their palaces!
Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch I am descended of a gentler blood: Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
What are you made of? you'll nor fight nor fly: Now is it manhood, wisdom   and defence, To give the enemy way, and to secure us By what we can, which can no more but fly. If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom Of all our fortunes: but if we haply 'scape, As well we may, if not through your neglect, We shall to London get, where you are loved And where this breach now in our fortunes made May readily be stopp'd. Re-enter young CLIFFORD. 
Well, sir.
No, my good lord; 'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see. The name and not the thing.
For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head, But boldly stand and front him to his face.
This way for me.
Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind And makes it fearful and degenerate; Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep. But who can cease to weep and look on this? Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast: But where's the body that I should embrace?
O my good lord, when I was like this maid, I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring; And, look you, here's your letter; this it says: 'When from my finger you can get this ring And are by me with child,' &c. This is done: Will you be mine, now you are doubly won?
Call hither Clifford; bid him come amain, To say if that the bastard boys of York Shall be the surety for their traitor father.
Why droops my lord, like overripen'd corn, Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load? Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows, As frowning at the favours of the world? Why are thine eyes fix'd to the sullen earth, Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight? What seest thou there?   King Henry's diadem, Enchased with all the honours of the world? If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face, Until thy head be circled with the same. Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold. What, is't too short?   I'll lengthen it with mine; And, having both together heaved it up, We'll both together lift our heads to heaven, And never more abase our sight so low As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
I prithee, give me leave to curse awhile.
I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost, He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit. For God's sake, let him have 'em; to keep them here, They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
Soothsayer!
O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Good majesty, Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you But when you are well pleased.
That time,O times! I laugh'd him out of patience; and that night I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn, Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed; Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst I wore his sword Philippan. O, from Italy  Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears, That long time have been barren.
Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
Go, ye giddy goose.
Thou'rt an honest man.
I did not see him since.
That's not so good: he cannot like her long.
He is afeard to come.
No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how full of briers is this working-day world!
Be comforted, dear madam.
Is he of God's making?   What manner of man? Is his head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?
What is 't you say ?
Indeed, he is so: I repent me much That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him, This creature's no such thing.
Musician, hast beene in Malta long?
Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant, plain holy-thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list not to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man: he swore he would never marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats his meat without grudging: and how you may be converted I know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
Troth, I think your other rabato were better.
No, good madam, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
She is dead too, our sovereign.
O, no, no, no.
Captain! thou abominable damned cheater, art thou not ashamed to be called captain? An captains were of my mind, they would truncheon you out, for taking their names upon you before you have earned them. You a captain! you slave, for what? for tearing a poor whore's ruff in a bawdy-house? He a captain! hang him, rogue! he lives upon mouldy stewed prunes and dried cakes. A captain! God's light, these villains will make the word as odious as the word 'occupy;' which was an excellent good word before it was ill sorted: therefore captains had need look to't.
Ay, surely, mere the truth: I know his lady.
Marry, if thou wert an honest man, thyself and the money too. Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet, sitting in my Dolphin-chamber, at the round table, by a seacoal fire, upon Wednesday in Wheeson week, when the prince broke thy head for liking his father to a singing-man of Windsor, thou didst swear to me then, as I was washing thy wound, to marry me and make me my lady thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech, the butcher's wife, come in then and call me gossip Quickly? coming in to borrow a mess of vinegar; telling us she had a good dish of prawns; whereby thou didst desire to eat some; whereby I told thee they were ill for a green wound?   And didst thou not, when she was gone down stairs, desire me to be no more so familiarity with such poor people; saying that ere long they would call me madam? And didst thou not kiss me and bid me fetch thee thirty shillings?   I put thee now to thy book-oath: deny it, if thou canst.
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce; He will be here, and yet he is not here: How can these contrarieties agree?
I am undone by his going; I warrant you, he's an infinitive thing upon my score. Good Master Fang, hold him sure: good Master Snare, let him not 'scape. A' comes continuantly to Pie-corner--saving your manhoods --to buy a saddle; and he is indited to dinner to the Lubber's-head in Lumbert street, to Master Smooth's the silkman: I pray ye, since my exion is entered and my case so openly known to the world, let him be brought in to his answer. A hundred mark is a long one for a poor lone woman to bear: and I have borne, and borne, and borne, and have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fubbed off, from this day to that day, that it is a shame to be thought on. There is no honesty in such dealing; unless a woman should be made an ass and a beast, to bear every knave's wrong. Yonder he comes; and that arrant malmsey- nose knave, Bardolph, with him. Do your offices, do your offices: Master Fang and Master Snare, do me, do me, do me your offices.
Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed. I would not tell you what I would, my lord: Faith, yes; Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
Take this purse of gold, And let me buy your friendly help thus far, Which I will over-pay and pay again When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter, Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty, Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent, As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it. Now his important blood will nought deny That she'll demand: a ring the county wears, That downward hath succeeded in his house From son to son, some four or five descents Since the first father wore it: this ring he holds In most rich choice; yet in his idle fire, To buy his will, it would not seem too dear, Howe'er repented after.
Masters,
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
Off, coxcomb!
Well.
To me, blood-thirsty lord; And for that cause I train'd thee to my house. Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me, For in my gallery thy picture hangs: But now the substance shall endure the like, And I will chain these legs and arms of thine, Thou hast by tyranny these many years Wasted our country, slain our citizens And sent our sons and husbands captivate.
Faith, you said so before.
His name, I pray you.
Pray, sir, your pardon.
Good people, bring a rescue or two. Thou wo't, wo't thou? thou wo't, wo't ta? do, do, thou rogue! do, thou hemp-seed!
With all my heart, and think me honoured To feast so great a warrior in my house.
That you are well restored, my lord, I'm glad: Let the rest go.
Indeed, madam?
My ladies both, good day to you.
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars, And say'st it is not fit.
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so. Her hair, what color ?
Wherefore is this ?
In each thing give him way, cross him in nothing.
O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!
Many times, madam.
By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your best array: bid your friends; for if you will be married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will. Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
As well a woman with an eunuch play'd As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir ?
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st: Yet, if thou say Antony lives, is well, Or friends with Csar, or not captive to him, I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail Rich pearls upon thee.
Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
Too slow a messenger. O, come apace, dispatch ! I partly feel thee.
Who's born that day When I forget to send to Antony, Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian. Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian, Ever love Csar so ?
Ay, madam, twenty several messengers: Why do you send so thick ?
Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be.
Once I encounter'd him, and thus I said: 'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:' But, with a proud majestical high scorn, He answer'd thus: 'Young Talbot was not born To be the pillage of a giglot wench:' So, rushing in the bowels of the French, He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
Alas, sir, we did it for pure need.
Your honours shall perceive how   I will work To bring this matter to the wished end. Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward. Here sound an English march.   Enter, and
   pass over at a distance, TALBOT and his
   forces.  There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread, And all the troops of English after him. French march. Enter the DUKE OF BURGUNDY and forces.  Now in the rearward comes the duke and his: Fortune in favour makes him lag behind. Summon a parley; we will talk with him. Trumpets sound a parley. 
He is arrested, but will not obey; His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.
And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd, Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again. Go, go, provide.
What does this knave here?   Get you gone, sirrah: the complaints I have heard of you I do not all believe; 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability enough to make such knaveries yours.
Tut, this was nothing but an argument That he who breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove Shall lose his head for his presumption. But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet duke: Methought I sat in seat of majesty In the cathedral church of Westminster, And in that chair where kings and queens are crown'd; Where Henry and dame Margaret kneel'd to me And on my head did set the diadem.
Well, now.
You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
What dream'd my lord? tell me, and I'll requite it With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
I do beseech you, sir, Since you are like to see the king before me, Commend the paper to his gracious hand, Which I presume shall render you no blame But rather make you thank your pains for it. I will come after you with what good speed Our means will make us means.
The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
Master Fang, have you entered the action?
Here is a silly stately style indeed! The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath, Writes not so tedious a style as this. Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
A plaguing mischief light on Charles and thee! And may ye both be suddenly surprised By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
Like to the time o' the year between the extremes Of hot and cold, he was nor sad nor merry.
O well-divided disposition! Note him, Note him, good Charmian, 'tis the man; but note him: He was not sad, for he would shine on those That make their looks by his; he was not merry, Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay In Egypt with his joy; but between both: O heavenly mingle! Be'st thou sad or merry, The violence of either thee becomes, So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts ?
Speak softly, wake her not.
Well, go to, I will; But there's no goodness in thy face: if Antony Be free and healthful,so tart a favor To trumpet such good tidings! If not well, Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes, Not like a formal man.
Then should you be nothing but musical, for you are altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief, and hear the lady sing in Welsh.
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking. Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose, that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are; neither do I labor for a greater esteem than may in some little measure draw a belief from you, to do yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if you please, that I can do strange things: I have, since I was three year old, conversed with a magician, most profound in his art and yet not damnable. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out, when your brother marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, to set her before your eyes to-morrow human as she is and without any danger.
Let it alone; let's to billiards: come, Charmian.
Like her! O Isis! 'tis impossible.
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear: In time we hate that which we often fear. But here comes Antony.
O, is't come to this ?
Bear'st thou her face in mind ? is't long or round ?
I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of yours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel: but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent fashion, yours is worth ten on't.
To have no man come over me! why, shall I always keep below stairs?
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers. What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good faith. How does your little son ?
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every thing hereafter.
I dare not say I take you; but I give Me and my service, ever whilst I live, Into your guiding power. This is the man.
And ever shall With true observance seek to eke out that Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd To equal my great fortune.
Victorious Talbot, pardon my abuse: I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited And more than may be gather'd by thy shape. Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath; For I am sorry that with reverence I did not entertain thee as thou art.
Throw me in the channel!  I'll throw thee in the channel. Wilt thou? wilt thou? thou bastardly rogue!  Murder, murder! Ah, thou honey-suckle villain! wilt thou kill God's officers and the king's? Ah, thou honey-seed rogue! thou art a honey-seed, a man-queller, and a woman-queller.
Yea, in truth, my lord.
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
I did so.
Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the town, are come to fetch you to church.
Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
Masters, masters,
There thou prickest her with a thistle.
Yes, it is apparel.
I may say so, when I please.
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you, Spoke with the king and have procured his leave For present parting; only he desires Some private speech with you.
To Saint Jaques le Grand. Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
The plot is laid: if all things fall out right, I shall as famous be by this exploit As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death. Great is the rumour of this dreadful knight, And his achievements of no less account: Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears, To give their censure of these rare reports.
Well, you shall have it, though I pawn my gown. I hope you'll come to supper. You'll pay me all together?
Yea, good Master Snare; I have entered him and all.
I am prepared: here is my keen-edged sword, Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side; The which at Touraine, in Saint Katharine's churchyard, Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus, and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
You would be another Penelope: yet, they say, all the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric were sensible as your finger, that you might leave pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
What, no more ceremony? See, my women ! Against the blown rose may they stop their nose That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
Sink Rome, and their tongues rot That speak against us! A charge we bear i' the war, And, as the president of my kingdom, will Appear there for a man. Speak not against it I will not stay behind. 
Well, sirra, what is't?
Is this certain ?
Madam, I trust, not so.
Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one should be lamed with reasons and the other mad without any.
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself : The man is innocent.
Show him your hand.
Here, at your service. My lord approaches. 
Ha, ha! Give me to drink mandragora.
Be choked with such another emphasis ! Say, the brave Antony.
It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue; but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes, and good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with you in the behalf of a good play! I am not furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much of this play as please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering, none of you hates them--that between you and the women the play may please. If I were a woman I would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
Do you not love me? do you not, indeed? Well, do not then; for since you love me not, I will not love myself. Do you not love me? Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
Make thee a fortune from me.
Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the ground. Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD of Orleans, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces. 
Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare, Alhough thou hast been conduct of my shame.
First, let me tell you whom you have condemn'd: Not me begotten of a shepherd swain, But issued from the progeny of kings; Virtuous and holy; chosen from above, By inspiration of celestial grace, To work exceeding miracles on earth. I never had to do with wicked spirit: But you, that are polluted with your lusts, Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents, Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices, Because you want the grace that others have, You judge it straight a thing impossible To compass wonders but by help of devils. No, misconceived!   Joan of Arc hath been A virgin from her tender infancy, Chaste and immaculate in very thought; Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effused, Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
Look on thy country, look on fertile France, And see the cities and the towns defaced By wasting ruin of the cruel foe. As looks the mother on her lowly babe When death doth close his tender dying eyes. See, see the pining malady of France; Behold the wounds the most unnatural wounds, Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast. O, turn thy edged sword another way; Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help. One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore: Return thee therefore with a flood of tears, And wash away thy country's stained spots.
Love you my son?
If it appear not plain and prove untrue, Deadly divorce step between me and you! O my dear mother, do I see you living?
Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive, These Kentish rebels would be soon appeased!
What say'st thou? majesty!   I am but grace.
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in.   The remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her cheek.   No more of this, Helena; go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect a sorrow than have it.
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch, With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer? And will they undertake to do me good?
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes it soon mortal.
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceased.
Go not about; my love hath in't a bond, Whereof the world takes note: come, come, disclose The state of your affection; for your passions Have to the full appeach'd.
Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France! Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man, Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
That's bad enough, for I am but reproach: And shall I then be used reproachfully?
Paysans, pauvres gens de France; Poor market folks that come to sell their corn.
How! so far?
I do not like 'But yet,' it does allay The good precedence; fie upon 'But yet'! 'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend, Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear, The good and bad together: he's friends with Csar: In state of health thou say'st; and thou say'st free.
By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth, If thou with Csar paragon again My man of men.
O, my good lord, why are you thus alone? For what offence have I this fortnight been A banish'd woman from my Harry's bed? Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee Thy stomach, pleasure and thy golden sleep? Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth, And start so often when thou sit'st alone? Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks; And given my treasures and my rights of thee To thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy? In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd, And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars; Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed; Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents, Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets, Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin, Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain, And all the currents of a heady fight. The spirit within thee hath been so at war And thus hast so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep, That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow, Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream; And in thy face strong motions have appear'd, Such as we see when men restrain their breath On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these? Some heavy business hath my lord in hand, And I must know it, else he loves me not.
That I might sleep out this great gap of time My Antony is away.
Sovereign of Egypt, hail !
Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
'Twas merry when You wager'd on your angling; when your diver Did hang a salt-fish on his hook, which he With fervency drew up.
Fare you well: pray heaven I be deceived in you!
You think of him too much.
He's very knowing; I do perceive 't: there's nothing in her yet: The fellow has good judgment.
Go to, sirra sauce, is this your question? get  ye  you  gon.
Celerity is never more admired Than by the negligent.
Csar's will ?
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come, you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with my prayers; but I cannot go thither.
Clap's into 'Light o' love;' that goes without a burden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.
Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
And while I live I'll ne'er fly from a man.
Alas the day! take heed of him; he stabbed me in mine own house, and that most beastly: in good faith, he cares not what mischief he does, if his weapon be out: he will foin like any devil; he will spare neither man, woman, nor child.
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
Is this the way?
Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper?
And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
Sir, I can nothing say, But that I am your most obedient servant.
So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing, I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
I wonder at it.
These gloves the count sent me; they are an excellent perfume.
Not here, sir!
When I like your favor; for God defend the lute should be like the case!
No; 'twas the vane on the house.
If he swagger, let him not come here: no, by my faith; I must live among my neighbors: I 'll no swaggerers: I am in good name and fame with the very best: shut the door; there comes no swaggerers here: I have not lived all this while, to have swaggering now: shut the door, I pray you.
nothing in France. 'Tis bitter.
O Lord, ay! good Master Snare.
Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter, My wit untrain'd in any kind of art. Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased To shine on my contemptible estate: Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs, And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks, God's mother deigned to appear to me And in a vision full of majesty Will'd me to leave my base vocation And free my country from calamity: Her aid she promised and assured success: In complete glory she reveal'd herself; And, whereas I was black and swart before, With those clear rays which she infused on me That beauty am I bless'd with which you see. Ask me what question thou canst possible, And I will answer unpremeditated: My courage try by combat, if thou darest, And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex. Resolve on this, thou shalt be fortunate, If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
Porter, remember what I gave in charge; And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
Pray thee, Sir John, let it be but twenty nobles: i' faith, I am loath to pawn my plate, so God save me, la!
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
And what said he?
Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
God match me with a good dancer!
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear, 'tis a very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o' Wednesday half an hour together: has such a confirmed countence. I saw him run after a gilded butterfly; and when he caught it, he let it go again; and after it again; and over and over he comes, and up again; catched it again; or whether his fall enraged him, or how 'twas, he did so set his teeth and tear it; O, I warrant, how he mammocked it!
I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.
Widow! Charmian, hark.
I have sixty sails, Csar none better.
O, that his fault should make a knave of thee, That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence: The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome Are all too dear for me: lie they upon thy hand, And be undone by 'em!
Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore be misprised: we will make it our suit to the duke that the wrestling might not go forward.
By your most gracious pardon, I sing but after you.
Madam ?
By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops withal and who he stands still withal.
O, break ! O, break !
'Good friend,' quoth he, 'Say, the firm Roman to great Egypt sends This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot, To mend the petty present, I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms; all the east, Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded, And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed, Who neigh'd so high, that what I would have spoke Was beastly dumb'd by him.
So I told him, my lord; and I said I heard your grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is; and said he would cudgel you.
You think none but your sheets are  privy to your wishes.
I am pale, Charmian.
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me Directly unto this question that I ask: In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry, An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.
Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling of Irish wolves against the moon. if I can: [To Phe.]  I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together. [To Phe.] I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be married tomorrow:  [To Orl.] I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you shall be married tomorrow:  [To Sil.] I will content you, if what pleases you contents you, and you shall be married to-morrow. [To Orl.] As you love Rosalind, meet: [To Sil.] as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman, I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.
Give me some music; music, moody food Of us that trade in love.
Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee, Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny. Who join'st thou with but with a lordly nation That will not trust thee but for profit's sake? When Talbot hath set footing once in France And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill, Who then but English Henry will be lord And thou be thrust out like a fugitive? Call we to mind, and mark but this for proof, Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe? And was he not in England prisoner? But when they heard he was thine enemy, They set him free without his ransom paid, In spite of Burgundy and all his friends. See, then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen And join'st with them will be thy slaughtermen. Come, come, return; return, thou wandering lord; Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts? Then, Joan, discover thine infirmity, That warranteth by law to be thy privilege. I am with child, ye bloody homicides: Murder not then the fruit within my womb, Although ye hale me to a violent death.
O Henry, let me plead for gentle Suffolk!
Heavens bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
Yes, my good lord, I'll follow presently. Follow I must; I cannot go before, While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind. Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood, I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks And smooth my way upon their headless necks; And, being a woman, I will not be slack To play my part in Fortune's pageant. Where are you there?   Sir John! nay, fear not, man, We are alone; here's none but thee and I. Enter HUME. 
No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
This young gentlewoman had a father,--O that 'had'! how sad a passage 'tis!-- whose skill was almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so far, would have made nature immortal, and death should have play for lack of work. Would, for the king's sake, he were living! I think it would be the death of the king's disease.
Ah, barbarous villains hath this lovely face Ruled, like a wandering planet, over me, And could it not enforce them to relent, That were unworthy to behold the same?
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father in manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few, Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend Under thy own life's key; be check'd for silence, But never tax'd for speech.  What heaven more will, That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down, Fall on thy head!  Farewell, my lord; 'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord, Advise him.
What, what, my lord! are you so choleric With Eleanor, for telling but her dream? Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself, And not be check'd.
What noise is this?
You are deceived; my child is none of his: It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
again!
Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
My salad days, When I was green in judgment: cold in blood, To say as I said then! But, come, away; Get me ink and paper: He shall have every day a several greeting, Or I'll unpeople Egypt.
For what good turn?
Out, you mad-headed ape. A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen As you are toss'd with. In faith, I'll know your business, Harry, that I will. I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir About his title, and hath sent for you To line his enterprize: but if you go,
Good my lord, hear me.
Nay, hear him.
Last thing he did, dear queen, He kiss'd,the last of many doubled kisses, This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
In this vile world? So, fare thee  well. Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies A lass unparalleled. Downy windows, close; And golden Phoebus never be beheld Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry; I'll mend it, and then play.
Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the contract of her marriage and the day it is solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight, Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of seven year.
Why, madam ?
My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Csar.
By sea ! what else ?
Guess at her years, I prithee.
Indeed, no, by your patience: I'll not over the threshold till my lord return from the wars.
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play the idle huswife with me this afternoon.
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done! Answer, clerk.
A maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold.
And where didst meet him?
Of what, lady? of speaking honorably? Is not marriage honorable in a beggar? Is not your lord honorable without marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend nobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for a husband'? None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife: otherwise 'tis light, and not heavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes.
By this heavenly ground I tread on, I must be fain to pawn both my plate and the tapestry of my dining-chambers.
Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old coil at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accused, the prince and Claudio mightily abused; and Don John is the author of all, who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
Is it yourself?
Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport. When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which never shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy body that I am father to, then call me husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.' This is a dreadful sentence.
Reignier, is't thou who thinkest to beguile me? Where is the Dauphin?   Come, come from behind; I know thee well, though never seen before. Be not amazed, there's nothing hid from me: In private will I talk with thee apart. Stand back, thou lords, and give us leave awhile.
Where's your yeoman? Is't a lusty yeoman? will a' stand to't?
Hang him, swaggering rascal! let him not come hither: it is the foul-mouthed'st rogue in England.
All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet, Though time seem so adverse and means unfit. I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
Very ill too. 
Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul breath, and foul breath is noisome; therefore I will depart unkissed.
I understand not, madam.
Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying!
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant, in the defence yet is weak:  unfold to us some warlike resistance.
What's the matter?
O God, that right should thus over  come might!   Well, of sufferance comes ease,
What is your pleasure, madam?
Ay, my good lord. Gerard de Narbon was my father; In what he did profess, well found.
On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home with the oaken garland.
Why, I pray you?
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged Cupid at the flight; and my uncle's fool, reading the challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged him at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he killed and eaten in these wars? But how many hath he killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
No, let me speak; and let me rail so high, That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel, Provoked by my offence.
What's thy name ?
O Charmian, I will never go from hence.
Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart.
What means the fool, trow?
No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is almost six thousand years old, and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he could to die before, and he is one of the patterns of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night; for, good youth, he went but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being taken with the cramp was drowned: and the foolish coroners of that age found it was 'Hero of Sestos.' But these are all lies: men have died from time to time and worms have eaten them, but not for love.
Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas,come, his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman that cannot go, sweet Isis, I beseech thee! and let her die too, and give him a worse! and let worst follow worse, till the worst of all follow him laughing to his grave, fifty-fold a cuckold! Good Isis, hear me this prayer, though thou deny me a matter of more weight; good Isis, I beseech thee!
I found it not.
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than drunkards.
Good sir, give me good fortune.
Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such offenders, and let Time try: adieu.
How goes it here ?
He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so, He might have bought me at a common price: Do not believe him. O, behold this ring, Whose high respect and rich validity Did lack a parallel; yet for all that He gave it to a commoner o' the camp, If I be one.
She then was honest.
Though he be honorable,
Though age from folly could not give me freedom, It does from childishness: can Fulvia die ?
And I with him; for he hath done me wrong.
Wilt thou accept of ransom? yea, or no.
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland? Think but upon the wrong he did us all, And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
Parolles, was it not?
I am her mother, sir, whose age and honor Both suffer under this complaint we bring, And both shall cease, without your remedy.
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam; But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic, Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided, As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
Though my estate be fallen, I was well born, Nothing acquainted with these businesses; And would not put my reputation now In any staining act.
It hath happened all as I would have had it, save that he comes not along with her.
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all questions.
The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound, Already at my house.
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak. Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis, That Henry, sole possessor of my love, Is of a king become a banish'd man, And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn; While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York Usurps the regal title and the seat Of England's true-anointed lawful king. This is the cause that I, poor Margaret, With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir, Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid; And if thou fail us, all our hope is done: Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help; Our people and our peers are both misled, Our treasure seized, our soldiers put to flight, And, as then seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
Haste you again.
Nothing in France, until he have no wife! There's nothing here that is too good for him But only she; and she deserves a lord That twenty such rude boys might tend upon And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
Lord, how we lose our pains!
And here's to right our gentlehearted king.
I were best to leave him, for he will not hear.
Crossing the sea from England into France, This fellow here, with envious carping tongue, Upbraided me about the rose I wear; Saying, the sanguine colour of the leaves Did represent my master's blushing cheeks, When stubbornly he did repugn the truth About a certain question in the law Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him; With other vile and ignominious terms: In confutation of which rude reproach And in defence of my lord's worthiness, I crave the benefit of law of arms.
I would I had thy inches; thou shouldst know There were a heart in Egypt.
No, my good lord, Diana.
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
I your servant, Adieu, good queen; I must attend on Csar.
By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous, if you break one jot of your promise or come one minute behind your hour, I will think you the most pathetical break-promise and the most hollow lover and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that may be chosen out of the gross band of the unfaithful: therefore beware my censure and keep your promise.
Good, my lord, Ask him upon his oath, if he does think He had not my virginity.
Pray, then, foresee me one.
A traveller!   By my faith, you have great reason to be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men's; then, to have seen much and to have nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
Amen.
By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant it.
I never gave it him.
For the letter that begins them all, H.
Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss, and let not him speak neither.
To the monument! Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself; Say, that the last I spoke was 'Antony,' And word it, prithee, piteously: hence, Mardian, And bring me how he takes my death. To the monument!
My desolation does begin to make A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Csar; Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave, A minister of her will: and it is great To do that thing that ends all other deeds; Which   shackles   accidents   and   bolts   up change; Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug, The beggar's nurse and Csar's.
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord! Our strength is all gone into heaviness, That makes the weight: had I great Juno's power, The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up, And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little, Wishes were ever fools,O, come, come, come; And welcome, welcome! die where thou hast lived; Quicken with kissing: had my lips that power, Thus would I wear them out.
You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it: he is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but disease our better mirth.
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but Aufidius got off.
Ay, madam, knowingly.
I'll tell you what, you thin man in a censer, I will have you as soundly swinged for this,--you blue-bottle rogue, you filthy famished  correctioner, if you be not swinged, I 'll forswear half-kirtles.
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie. Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull. What power is it which mounts my love so high, That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye? The mightiest space in fortune nature brings To join like likes and kiss like native things. Impossible be strange attempts to those That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose What hath been cannot be: who ever strove To show her merit, that did miss her love? The king's disease--my project may deceive me, But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me ask you a question.   Man is enemy to virginity; how may we barricado it against him?
Well, fare thee well: I have known thee these twenty nine years, come peascodtime;  but an honester and truer-hearted man, --well, fare thee well.
Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
If it might please ye,
For them all together; which maintained so politic a state of evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me?
I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield upon great persuasion; and partly to save your life, for I was told you were in a consumption.
It appears not in this confession: there's not one wise man among twenty that will praise himself.
If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance.
Mine honourable mistress.
Nut-hook, nut-hook, you lie. Come on; I'll tell thee what, thou damned tripe  visaged rascal, an the child I now go with do miscarry, thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother, thou paper-faced villain.
Who knocks so loud at door?   Look to the door there, Francis.
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers up!   Is there no military policy, how virgins might blow up men?
O, the Lord preserve thy good grace! by my troth, welcome to London. Now, the Lord bless that sweet face of thine! O Jesu, are you come from Wales?
Will you not tell me who told you so?
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than look upon his schoolmaster.
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for 't.
Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such a face as yours were.
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the wars or no?
He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not Be noble to myself: but, hark thee, Charmian.
Antony Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but I do not greatly care to be deceived, That have no use for trusting. If your master Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him, That majesty, to keep decorum, must No less beg than a kingdom: if he please To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son, He gives me so much of mine own, as I Will kneel to him with thanks.
They do not go together.
I am stuffed, cousin; I cannot smell.
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the world but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in a corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!
A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected, which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for simply your having in beard is a younger brother's revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe untied and every thing about you demonstrating a careless desolation; but you are no such man; you are rather point-device in your accoutrements  as loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.
Rememberest thou any that have died on't ?
He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as she answers thee with frowning looks. I'll sauce her with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?
Is this the man ? Is't you, sir, that know things ?
Well, in her person I say I will not have you.
Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I, where would you choose it?
Madam, he will; I know't. Enter CSAR, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, MECNAS, SELEUCUS, and others of his Train. 
Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave That leads him to these places: were I his lady, I would poison that vile rascal.
Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
Csar, thy thoughts Touch their effects in this: thyself art coming To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou So sought'st to hinder. Re-enter CSAR and all his train marching. 
I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises, enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid hath been seduced by them; and the misery is, example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of maiden- hood, cannot for all that dissuade succession, but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but I hope your own grace will keep you where you are, though there were no further danger known but the modesty which is so lost.
And yet I would that you would answer me.
Margaret my name, and daughter to a king, The king of Naples, whosoe'er thou art.
Son, on my life, I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it At her life's rate.
By what observance, I pray you?
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve Where kings command. I was, I must confess, Great Albion's queen in former golden days: But now mischance hath trod my title down, And with dishonour laid me on the ground; Where I must take like seat unto my fortune, And to my humble seat conform myself.
So, now they come: Enter BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the whole army.  That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son; That, Escalus.
I have yielded: Instruct my daughter how she shall persever, That time and place with this deceit so lawful May prove coherent.   Every night he comes With musics of all sorts and songs composed To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us To chide him for our eaves; for he persists As if his life lay on't.
Go. rate thy minions, proud insulting boy! Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness. My son corrupts a well-derived nature With his inducement.
God forbid any malice should prevail, That faultless may condemn a nobleman! Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
Marry, God forfend!
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick! dare you speak? When you and I met at Saint Alban's last, Your legs did better service than your hands.
Gentle madam, You never had a servant to whose trust Your business was more welcome.
You're welcome, gentlemen. I will entreat you, when you see my son, To tell him that his sword can never win The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you Written to bear along.
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
Marry, hang you!
From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless! Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
He talks at random; sure, the man is mad.
The gods forbid else!
If you shall marry, You give away this hand, and that is mine; You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine; You give away myself, which is known mine; For I by vow am so embodied yours, That she which marries you must marry me, Either both or none.
O sir, you are too sure an augurer; That you did fear is done.
It is the emperor, madam.
That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee, tell her but a worky-day fortune.
Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit. Am not I your Rosalind?
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most any thing Alexas, almost most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer that you praised so to the queen? O, that I knew this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns with garlands !
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with him: he asked me of what parentage I was; I told him, of as good as he; so he laughed and let me go. But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a man as Orlando?
Avoid, and leave him. Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there, That kills and pains not ?
There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.
I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
O, God help me! God help me! how long have you professed apprehension?
My resolution and my hands I'll trust; None about Csar.
Pray you, tell him I am his fortune's vassal, and I send him The greatness he has got. I hourly learn A doctrine of obedience; and would gladly Look him i' the face.
My master, and my lord!
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here; Here sheathe thy sword, I'll pardon the my death: What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
A dear happiness to women: they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God and my cold blood, I am of your humor for that: I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me.
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath another, his wife another; and, I think, there's one at home for you.
Sweet madam.
I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
How, you fat fool!   I scorn you.
I cannot speak; if my heart be not ready to burst,--well, sweet Jack, have a care of thyself.
I will stand for't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
That I am not.
O the Lord, that Sir John were come! he would make this a bloody day to somebody. But I pray God the fruit of her womb miscarry!
What the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out of measure sad?
In spite of your heart, I think; alas, poor heart! If you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours; for I will never love that which my friend hates.
Yea, as sure as I have a thought or a soul.
To the death, my lord.
Ah, you sweet little rogue, you! alas, poor ape, how thou sweatestl come, let me wipe thy face; come on, you whoreson chops: ah, rogue! i' faith, I love thee: thou art as valorous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the Nine Worthies: ah, villain!
Ay, come, you starved blood-hound.
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety: but the composition that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
That wishing well had not a body in 't, Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born, Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes, Might with effects of them follow our friends, And show what we alone must think, which never Return us thanks.
No, I warrant you.
Do, good friend.
He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion. Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous, Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick; And with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable, That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
Ay, thou usest to forswear thyself: 'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity. What, wilt thou not?   Where is that devil's butcher, Hard-favoured Richard? Richard, where art thou? Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed; Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove the mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.
True! pow, wow.
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
Sir, I will eat no meat, I'll not drink, sir ; If idle talk will once be necessary, I'll not sleep neither: this mortal house I'll ruin, Do Csar what he can. Know, sir, that I Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court; Nor once be chastised with the sober eye Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome ? Rather a ditch in Egypt Be gentle grave unto me ! rather on Nilus' mud Lay me stark naked, and let the water-flies Blow me into abhorring! rather make My country's high pyramides my gibbet, And hang me up in chains!
I dare not, dear, Dear my lord, pardon,I dare not, Lest I be taken: not the imperious show Of the full-fortuned Csar ever shall Be brooch'd with me; if knife, drugs, serpents, have Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe: Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes And still conclusion, shall acquire no honor Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony, Help me, my women,we must draw thee up: Assist, good friends.
And your experience makes you sad! I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad; and to travel for it too!
He means in flesh.
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday humor and like enough to consent. What would you say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
Then belike my children shall have no names: prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have ?
But why did he swear he would come this morning, and comes not?
Peace, peace! Dost thou not see my baby at my breast, That sucks the nurse asleep ?
He; That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow. I would he loved his wife: if he were honester He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
Ay, so you serve us Till we serve you; but when you have our roses, You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves And mock us with our bareness.
Hear me, good madam. Your loss is as yourself, great; and you bear it As answering to the weight: would I might never O'ertake pursued success, but I do feel, By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites My very heart at root.
I'll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
For which live long to thank both heaven and me! You may so in the end. My mother told me just how he would woo, As if she sat in's heart; she says all men Have the like oaths: he had sworn to marry me When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid, Marry that will, I live and die a maid: Only in this disguise I think 't no sin To cozen him that would unjustly win.
Ay, marry, is't. If you will tarry, holy pilgrim, But till the troops come by, I will conduct you where you shall be lodged; The rather, for I think I know your hostess As ample as myself.
What though I be enthrall'd? he seems a knight, And will not any way dishonour me.
Villain, thou know'st the law of arms is such That whoso draws a sword, 'tis present death, Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood. But I'll unto his majesty, and crave I may have liberty to venge this wrong; When thou shalt see I'll meet thee to thy cost.
Can you not see? or will ye not observe The strangeness of his alter'd countenance? With what a majesty he bears himself, How insolent of late he is become, How proud, how   peremptory, and unlike himself? We know the time since he was mild and affable, And if we did but glance a far-off look, Immediately he was upon his knee, That all the court admired him for submission: But meet him now, and, be it in the morn, When every one will give the time of day, He knits his brow and shows an angry eye And passeth by with stiff unbowed knee, Disdaining duty that to us belongs. Small curs are not regarded when they grin; But great men tremble when the lion roars; And Humphrey is no little man in England. First note that he is near you in descent, And should you fall, he is the next will mount. Me seemeth then it is no policy, Respecting what a rancorous mind he bears And his advantage following your decease, That he should come about your royal person Or be admitted to your highness' council. By flattery that he won the commons' hearts. And when he please to make commotion, 'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him. Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallowrooted; Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden And choke the herbs for want of husbandry. The reverent care I bear unto my lord Made me collect these dangers in the duke. If it be fond, call it a woman's fear; Which fear if better reasons can supplant, I will subscribe and say I wrong'd the duke. My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York, Reprove my allegation, if you can; Or else conclude my words effectual.
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
Here you shall see a countryman of yours That has done worthy service.
Why should he be killed?
Find you that there?
We thank you all.
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York. Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy That sought to be encompass'd with your crown: Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
Return you thither?
Off with his head, and set it on York gates; So York may overlook the town of York.
Great King of England and my gracious lord, The mutual conference that my mind hath had, By day, by night, waking and in my dreams, In courtly company or at my beads, With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign, Makes me the bolder to salute my king With ruder terms, such as my wit affords And over-joy of heart doth minister.
You came, I think, from France?
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow. And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
What is the matter?
Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French; And then I need not crave his courtesy.
If you shall please so, pilgrim.
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window: I'll order take my mother shall not hear. Now will I charge you in the band of truth, When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed, Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me: My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them When back again this ring shall be deliver'd: And on your finger in the night I'll put Another ring, that what in time proceeds May token to the future our past deeds. Adieu, till then; then, fail not. You have won A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
No: My mother did but duty; such, my lord, As you owe to your wife.
Gentle madam, no.
Alas, poor lady! 'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife Of a detesting lord.
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle, O Antony !Nay, I will take thee too. What should I stay Dies. 
You have heard him swear downright he was.
Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were gravelled for lack of matter, you might take occasion to kiss. Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and for lovers lacking--God warn us!-- matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
Wrinkles forbid!
Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your own country, be out of love with your nativity and almost chide God for making you that countenance you are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a gondola. Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such another trick, never come in my sight more.
So it should be, that none but Antony Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!
Where art thou, death ? Come hither, come! come, come, and take a queen Worthy many babes and beggars!
I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.
Ye light o' love, with your heels! then, if your husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barns.
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm: there will be large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall stand for his place. He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well; but civil count, civil as an orange, and something of that jealous complexion.
So come to you and yours, as to this prince!
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss, But cheerly seek how to redress their harms. What though the mast be now blown overboard, The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost, And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood? Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad With tearful eyes add water to the sea And give more strength to that which hath too much, Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock, Which industry and courage might have saved? Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this! Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that? And Montague our topmost; what of that? Our slaughter'd friends the tackles; what of these? Why, is not Oxford here another anchor? And Somerset another goodly mast? The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings? And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge? We will not from the helm to sit and weep, But keep our course, though the rough wind say no, From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck. As good to chide the waves as speak them fair. And what is Edward but a ruthless sea? What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit? And Richard but a ragged fatal rock? All these the enemies to our poor bark. Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while! Tread on sand; why, there you quickly sink: Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off, Or else you famish; that's a threefold death. This speak I, lords, to let you understand, If case some one of you would fly from us, That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers More than with ruthless waves, with sands and rocks. Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided 'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
It is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man: but for the stuffing,well, we are all mortal.
Sir, the gods Will have it thus; my master and my lord I must obey.
No, not till a hot January.
That I wish well.   'Tis pity--
God's blessing of your good heart! and so she is, by my troth.
Come, you rogue, come; bring me to a justice.
You go so much backward when you fight.
Are you not hurt i' the groin? methought  a' made a shrewd thrust at your belly.
Here, man; I am at thy elbow.
'Then' is spoken; fare you well now: and yet, ere I go, let me go with that I came; which is, with knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio.
Why, then, God forgive me!
Would I had never come from thence, nor you Thither!
Can you make no use of your discontent?
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand What husband in thy power I will command: Exempted be from me the arrogance To choose from forth the royal blood of France, My low and humble name to propagate With any branch or image of thy state; But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
All victuallers do so: what's a joint of mutton or two in a whole Lent?
How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
The wars have so kept you under that you must needs be born under Mars.
Goodman death, goodman bones!
Very easily possible: he wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the next block.
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath such meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you come in her presence.
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:
Then his good report should have been my son; I therein would have found issue. Hear me profess sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love alike and none less dear than thine and my good Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
No, my lord, unless I might have another for working-days: your grace is too costly to wear every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
What does he mean ?
Good morrow, sweet Hero.
No, I will not: All strange and terrible events are welcome, But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow, Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great As that which makes it. How now! is he dead ?
Quick, quick, good hands.
Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus pre sageth famine.
Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: I had as lief be wooed of a snail.
I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
And no.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
See where he is, who's with him, what he does: I did not send you: if you find him sad, Say I am dancing; if in mirth, report That I am sudden sick: quick, and return.
Let death and honesty Go with your impositons, I am yours Upon your will to suffer.
Who was last with them ?
Most sovereign creature,
I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion.
'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth, But the plain single vow that is vow'd true. What is not holy, that we swear not by, But take the High'st to witness: then, pray you, tell me, If I should swear by God's great attributes, I loved you dearly, would you believe my oaths, When I did love you ill?   This has no holding, To swear by him whom I protest to love, That I will work against him: therefore your oaths Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd, At least in my opinion.
Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
Why, what is he? as good a man as York.
Hear ye, captain, are you not at leisure?
An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this, And urge her to a present answer back: Commend me to my kinsmen and my son: This is not much.
'To my Lord Protector!' Are your supplications to his lordship? Let me see them: what is thine?
My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh, And this soft courage makes your followers faint. You promised knighthood to our forward son: Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently. Edward, kneel down.
I prithee, lady, have a better cheer; If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine, Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son; But I do wash his name out of my blood, And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
What have we here?
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise; For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
I warrant, good creature, wheresoe'er she is, Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath recovered the king, and undone me. I have wedded her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not' eternal. You shall hear I am run away: know it before the report come. If there be breadth enough in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty duty to you.                    Your unfortunate son, BERTRAM. This is not well, rash and unbridled boy, To fly the favours of so good a king; To pluck his indignation on thy head By the misprising of a maid too virtuous For the contempt of empire.
He does indeed; And brokes with all that can in such a suit Corrupt the tender honour of a maid: But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard In honestest defence.  

Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
What say'st thou? did the Duke of York say he was rightful heir to the crown?
And to be a soldier?
Not much employment for you: you understand me?
He talks of wood: it is some carpenter.
Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage The envious barking of your saucy tongue Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
That for thyself: I will not so presume To send such peevish tokens to a king.
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited  to swoon when he showed me your handkercher?
Cleopatra!
I see that men make ropes in such a scarre That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine, Derived from the ancient Capilet: My suit, as I do understand, you know, And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
Here, on her breast, There is a vent of blood and something blown: The like is on her arm.
What should I do, I do not ?
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
Hush !
Break an hour's promise in love! He that will divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but a part of the thousandth part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be said of him that Cupid hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'll warrant him heart-whole.
And you, monarch!
Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
What, of death too, That rids our dogs of languish ?
O sun, Burn the great sphere thou movest in! darkling stand The varying shore o' the world. O Antony, Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help; Help, friends below; let's draw him hither.
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Sleep a little.
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star danced, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy! 
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering how honour would become such a person, that it was no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than now in first seeing he had proved himself a man.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.
I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick: nobody marks you.
Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last conflict four of his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man governed with one: so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse; for it is all the wealth that he hath left, to be known a reasonable creature. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new sworn brother.
When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
Thou atomy, thou!
What says your grace?
Not my virginity yet. . . . There shall your master have a thousand loves, A mother and a mistress and a friend, A phoenix, captain and an enemy, A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign, A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear; His humble ambition, proud humility, His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet, His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms, That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he-- I know not what he shall.   God send him well! The court's a learning place, and he is one--
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress Fall, when Love please marry, to each, but one!
Princes and counties! Surely, a princely testimony, a goodly count, Count Comfect; a sweet gallant, surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake! But manhood is melted into courtesies, valor into compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and trim ones too: he is now a valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving.
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment. You have of late stood out against your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace; where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest.
I have said.
Will you not eat your word?
I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest.
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune Than that which is to approach.
Csar's. Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side: Thy demon, that's thy spirit which keeps thee, is Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable, Where Csar's is not; but, near him, thy angel Becomes a fear, as being o'erpower'd: therefore Make space enough between you.
It is a man's office, but not yours.
Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
Good madam, pardon me!
Here's a goodly tumult! I'll forswear  keeping house, afore I'll be in these tirrits and frights. So; murder, I warrant now. Alas, alas! put up your naked weapons, put up your naked weapons.
Sirrah, what humour's the prince of?
The great'st grace lending grace, Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring, Ere twice in murk and occidental damp Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp, Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass. What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly, Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
Nay, pray you, sir,
So part we sadly in this troublous world, To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside, And I am ready to put armour on.
This is my treasurer: let him speak, my lord, Upon his peril, that I have reserved To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel and make him my waiting- gentlewoman? He that hath a beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man: and he that is more than a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a man, I am not for him: therefore I will even take sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his apes into hell.
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gave him use for it, a double heart for his single one: marry, once before he won it of me with false dice, therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
That's my brave lord!
Nay, I'll help too. What's this for ?
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me: if it had been painful, I would not have come.
Say, I would die.
Good mother, fetch my bail.   Stay, royal sir: The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for, And he shall surety me. But for this lord, Who hath abused me, as he knows himself, Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him: He knows himself my bed he hath defiled; And at that time he got his wife with child: Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick: So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick: And now behold the meaning. Re-enter Widow, with HELENA. 
And this was it I gave him, being abed.
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread.
This proves me base: If she first meet the curled Antony, He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou mortal wretch, With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate Of life at once untie: poor venomous fool, Be angry, and dispatch. O, couldst thou speak, That I might hear thee call great Csar ass Unpolicied!
Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature's wit.
With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
Farewell, and thanks. Now, Iras, what think'st thou ? Thou, an Egyptian puppet, shalt be shown In Rome, as well as I: mechanic slaves With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths, Rank of gross diet, shall we be enclouded, And forced to drink their vapor.
Thou teachest like a fool; the way to lose him.
There is a gentleman that serves the count Reports but coarsely of her.
I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou shouldst know it; I am an honest man's wife: and, setting thy knighthood aside, thou art a knave to call me so.
He was disposed to mirth; but on the sudden A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell your brother how well I counterfeited.  Heigh-ho!
Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
Nay, hear them, Antony: Fulvia perchance is angry; or, who knows If the scarce-bearded Csar have not sent His powerful mandate to you, 'Do this, or this; Take in that kingdom, and enfranchise that; Perform 't, or else we damn thee.'
At the Saint Francis here beside the port.
Farewell, my lord: good wishes, praise and prayers Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced? I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch! Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me; And given unto the house of York such head As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance. To entail him and his heirs unto the crown, What is it, but to make thy sepulchre And creep into it far before thy time? Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais; Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas; The duke is made protector of the realm; And yet thou shalt be safe? such safety finds The trembling lamb environed with wolves. Had I been there, which am a silly woman, The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes Before I would have granted to that act. But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour: And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed, Until that act of parliament be repeal'd Whereby my son is disinherited. The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours Will follow mine, if once they see them spread; And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace And utter ruin of the house of York. Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away; Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
So he is.   My lord that's gone made himself much sport out of him: by his authority he remains here, which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and, indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
I cry you, mercy, 'tis but Quid for Quo.
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
What, will your highness leave the parliament?
I see no reason why a king of years Should be to be protected like a child. God and King Henry govern England's realm. Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
Had you not lately an intent, -- speak truly, -- To go to Paris?
Think upon patience.   Pray you, gentlemen, I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief, That the first face of neither, on the start, Can woman me unto't: where is my son, I pray you?
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
Why, now is Henry king, and Margaret queen; And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself, That bears so shrewd a maim; two pulls at once; His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off. This staff of honour raught, there let it stand Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
Wherefore? tell true.
You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
Free lords, cold snow melts with the sun's hot beams. Henry my lord is cold in great affairs, Too full of foolish pity, and Gloucester's show Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile With sorrow snares relenting passengers, Or as the snake roll'd in a flowering bank, With shining checker'd slough, doth sting a child That for the beauty thinks it excellent. Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I-- And yet herein I judge mine own wit good-- This Gloucester should be quickly rid the world, To rid us from the fear we have of him.
Tush, women have been captivate ere now.
Who can be patient in such extremes? Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid, And never seen thee, never borne thee son, Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father! Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus? Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I, Or felt that pain which I did for him once, Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood, Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there, Rather than have made that savage duke thine heir And disinherited thine only son.
I would I had not known him; it was the death of the most virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had praise for creating. If she had partaken of my flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a mother, I could not have owed her a more rooted love.
I hope so. Look, here comes a pilgrim: I know she will lie at my house; thither they send one another: I'll question her.   God save you, pilgrim! whither are you bound?
An if my father please, I am content.
Perchance! nay, and most like: You must not stay here longer, your dismission Is come from Csar; therefore hear it, Antony. Where's Fulvia's process ? Csar's I would say ? both ? Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's queen, Thou blushest, Antony; and that blood of thine Is Csar's homager: else so thy cheek pays shame When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds. The messengers
I might ask you for your commission;  but I do take thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes before the priest; and certainly a woman's thought runs before her actions.
So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
Seek him, and bring him hither. Where's Alexas ?
I am sick and sullen.
Monsieur Parolles.
Dolabella, I shall remain your debtor.
With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.
Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have Immortal longings in me: now no more The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip: Yare, yare, good Iras; quick. Methinks I hear Antony call; I see him rouse himself To praise my noble act; I hear him mock The luck of Csar, which the gods give men To excuse their after wrath: husband, I come: Now to that name my courage prove my title! I am fire and air; my other elements I give to baser life. So; have you done ? Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips. Farewell, kind Charmian; Iras, long farewell. Have I the aspic in my lips ? Dost fall ? If thou and nature can so gently part, The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, Which hurts, and is desired. Dost thou lie still ? If thus thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world It is not worth leave-taking.
His very hair is of the dissembling color.
Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world, not in the lineaments of Nature.
Sir, much like The same upon your finger.
Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty: He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't; I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not. Great king, I am no strumpet, by my life; I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
I cannot tell.
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's point and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior: fare you well.
Sooth, la, I'll help: thus it must be.
It is my birthday: I had thought to have held it poor: but, since my lord Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next turning. 
Just, if he send me no husband; for the which blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and evening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with a beard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.
This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels, I am possess'd of: 'tis exactly valued; Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus ?
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say My tears gainsay; for every word I speak, Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes. Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign, Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd, His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain, His statutes cancell'd and his treasures spent; And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil. You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords, Be valiant and give signal to the fight. Exeunt. 
I thank you, sir, Know you what Csar means to do with me ?
I especially think, under Mars.
They say Poins has a good wit.
Tax of impudence, A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name Sear'd otherwise; nay, worse--if worse--extended With vilest torture let my life be ended.
Your pardon, noble mistress!
I pray thee, Jack, be quiet; the rascal's gone. Ah, you whoreson little valiant villain, you!
I will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward with thy tale.
A very even way, but no such friend.
I see it in My motion, have it not in my tongue : but yet Hie you to Egypt again.
You shall outlive the lady whom you serve.
You have stayed me in a happy hour: I was about to protest I loved you.
To none but thee; no more, but when to thee. If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and, of that natural luck, He beats thee 'gainst the odds: thy lustre thickens, When he shines by: I say again, thy spirit Is all afraid to govern thee near him; But, he away, 'tis noble.
As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as you: but believe me not; and yet I lie not; I confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin.
Kill Claudio.
If every of your wishes had a womb, And fertile every wish, a million.
But will you make it even?
I' faith, and thou followedst him like a church. Thou whoreson little tidy Bartholomew  boar-pig, when wilt thou leave fighting o' days and foining o' nights, and begin to patch up thine old body for heaven?
I pray thee, Jack, I pray thee, do not draw.
Then, I confess, Here on my knee, before high heaven and you, That before you, and next unto high heaven, I love your son. My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love: Be not offended; for it hurts not him That he is loved of me: I follow him not By any token of presumptuous suit; Nor would I have him till I do deserve him; Yet never know how that desert should be. I know I love in vain, strive against hope; Yet in this captious and intenible sieve I still pour in the waters of my love And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like, Religious in mine error, I adore The sun, that looks upon his worshipper, But knows of him no more. My dearest madam, Let not your hate encounter with my love For loving where you do: but if yourself, Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth, Did ever in so true a flame of liking Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian Was both herself and love; O, then, give pity To her, whose state is such that cannot choose But lend and give where she is sure to lose; That seeks not to find that her search implies, But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
Your will?
No; an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray you, who is his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil?
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love; And I forgive and quite forget old faults, And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
Sole sir o' the world, I cannot project mine own cause so well To make it clear; but do confess I have Been laden with like frailties which before Have often shamed our sex.
Think you there was, or might be, such a man As this I dream'd of ?
Thanks, gentle Somerset; sweet Oxford, thanks.
Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool; only his gift is in devising impossible slanders: none but libertines delight in him; and the commendation is not in his wit, but in his villany; for he both pleases men and angers them, and then they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in the fleet: I would he had boarded me. 
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?
With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world, if a' could get her good-will.
Lead me. He goes forth gallantly. That he and Csar might Determine this great war in single fight! Then Antony,but nowWell, on.
What means this ?
I have spoke the truth.
I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he carries his house on his head; a better jointure, I think, than you make a woman: besides, he brings his destiny with him.
Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all: let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry may do homage: find me to marry me with Octavius Csar, and companion me with my mistress.
With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.
Hie thee again: I have spoke already, and it is provided; Go put it to the haste.
With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men by these presents.'
I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind and come every day to my cote and woo me.
Will it eat me ?
Where is he ?
Say, what thing? what thing?
Whatsome'er he is, He's bravely taken here.   He stole from France, As 'tis reported, for the king had married him Against his liking: think you it is so?
Pray you, stand further from me.
Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando; men are April when they woo, December when they wed: maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen, more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that when you are disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and that when thou art inclined to sleep.
Mine honour's such a ring: My chastity's the jewel of our house, Bequeathed down from many ancestors; In me to lose: thus your own proper wisdom Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world Brings in the champion Honour on my part, Against your vain assault.
O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf!
Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words! Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much, As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her, I could have well diverted her intents, Which thus she hath prevented.
Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee gone.
Such commendations as becomes a maid, A virgin and his servant, say to him.
It is reported that he has taken their greatest commander; and that with his own hand he slew the duke's brother. have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
But think you, Helen, If you should tender your supposed aid, He would receive it? he and his physicians Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him, They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools, Embowell'd of their doctrine, have left off The danger to itself?
It made me laugh to see the villain run.
But I can give the loser leave to chide.
I play the noble housewife with the time, To entertain 't so merrily with a fool.
My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise, Is this the fashion in the court of England? Is this the government of Britain's isle, And this the royalty of Albion's king? What, shall King Henry be a pupil still Under the surly Gloucester governance? Am I a queen in title and in style, And must be made a subject to a duke? I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love And stolest away the ladies' hearts of France, I thought King Henry had resembled thee In courage, courtship and proportion: But all his mind is bent to holiness, To number Ave-Maries on his beads; His champions are the prophets and apostles, His weapons holy saws of sacred writ, His study in his tilt-yard, and his loves Are brazen images of canonized saints. I would the college of the cardinals Would choose him pope and carry him to Rome, And set the triple crown upon his head: That were a state fit for his holiness.
Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak, Before you answer Warwick. His demand Springs not from   Edward's well-meant honest love, But from deceit bred by necessity; For how can tyrants safely govern home, Unless abroad they purchase great alliance? To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice, That Henry liveth still; but were he dead, Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son. Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour; For though usurpers sway the rule awhile, Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
And as for you, that love to be protected Under the wings of our protector's grace, Bring your suits anew, and sue to him. Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
Ah, what's more dangerous than this fond affiance! Seems he a dove? his feathers are but borrow'd, For he's disposed as the hateful raven: Is he a lamb? his skin is surely lent him, For he's inclined as is the ravenous wolf. Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit? Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
Do not cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and 'spare not me'?   Indeed your 'O Lord, sir! ' is very sequent to your whipping:  you would answer very well to a whipping, if you were but bound to't.
This was your motive For Paris, was it? speak.
Tell me, good fellow, camest thou here by chance, Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
Yes, my good lord, a pure unspotted heart, Never yet taint with love, I send the king.
I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited by a gentleman his companion.
What angel shall Bless this unworthy husband? he cannot thrive, Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo, To this unworthy husband of his wife; Let every word weigh heavy of her worth That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief, Though little he do feel it, set down sharply. Dispatch the most convenient messenger: When haply he shall hear that she is gone, He will return; and hope I may that she, Hearing so much, will speed her foot again, Led hither by pure love: which of them both Is dearest to me, I have no skill in sense To make distinction: provide this messenger: My heart is heavy and mine age is weak; Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
Will you not, my lord?
I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend my counterfeiting to him. Will you go?
Now tell me how long you would have her after you have possessed her.
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall: It cannot be thus long, the sides of nature Will not sustain it.
We will not look upon him: go with us. Enter ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants. 
There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.
But is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides? is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
Well, get thee gone; farewell.
Go with me to it and I'll show it you: and by the way you shall tell me where in the forest you live. Will you go?
Dolabella!
With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
O, were that all! I think not on my father; And these great tears grace his remembrance more Than those I shed for him. What was he like? I have forgot him: my imagination Carries no favour in't but Bertram's. I am undone: there is no living, none, If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one That I should love a bright particular star And think to wed it, he is so above me: In his bright radiance and collateral light Must I be comforted, not in his sphere. The ambition in my love thus plagues itself: The hind that would be mated by the lion Must die for love.  'Twas pretty, though a plague, To see him every hour; to sit and draw His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls, In our heart's table; heart too capable Of every line and trick of his sweet favour: But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here? [Aside] One that goes with him: I love him for his sake; And yet I know him a notorious liar, Think him a great way fool, solely a coward; Yet these fix'd evils sit so fit in him, That they take place, when virtue's steely bones Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
O excellent! I love long life better than figs.
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
Ay, my lord.
Call all his noble captains to my lord.
Is not this buckled well ?
Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's sending that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
I am glad to see your ladyship.
Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me; which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at, strikes him into melancholy; and then there's a partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no supper that night.
This cheers my heart, to see your fordwardness.
You lie, up to the hearing of the gods. But, if there be, or ever were, one such, It's past the size of dreaming: nature wants stuff To vie strange forms with fancy; yet, to imagine An Antony, were nature's piece 'gainst fancy, Condemning shadows quite.
And may, through all the world: 'tis yours; and we, Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
Renowned prince, how shall poor Henry live, Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: he is sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! if he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a thousand pound ere a' be cured.
Come, you thin thing; come, you rascal.
Here's goodly stuff toward!
Do not you love him, madam?
If I break time, or flinch in property Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die, And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee; But, if help, what do you promise me?
Do, an thou darest for thy heart: an thou dost, I 'll canvass thee between a pair of sheets.
Your fortunes are alike.
You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
Do not swear, and eat it.
Csar, 'tis his schoolmaster: An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither He sends so poor a pinion off his wing, Which had superfluous kings for messengers Not many moons gone by.
Assuredly you know me.
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
Is he not approved in the height a, villain, that hath slandered, scorned, dishonored my kinswoman? O that I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they come to take hands; and then, with public accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancor,O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the market-place.
You shall be more beloving than beloved.
O, run, Doll, run; run, good Doll: come. come, Doll? [Exeunt. 
Why does the prince love him so, then ?
What I can do can do no hurt to try, Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy. He that of greatest works is finisher Oft does them by the weakest minister: So holy writ in babes hath judgement shown, When judges have been babes; great floods have flown From simple sources, and great seas have dried When miracles have by the greatest been denied. Oft expectation fails and most oft there Where most it promises, and oft it hits Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
My lord your son made me to think of this; Else Paris and the medicine and the king Had from the conversation of my thoughts Haply been absent then.
Good Captain Peesel, be quiet; 'tis very late, i' faith: I beseek you now, aggravate your choler.
That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'well, this was Signior Benedick that said so.
Yes, faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy and say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all that, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else make another curtsy and say 'Father, as it please me.'
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous approbation.
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace, Proud setter up and puller down of kings! I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears, Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love; For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
See, Csar! O, behold, How pomp is follow'd! mine will now be yours; And, should we shift estates, yours would be mine. The ingratitude of this Seleucus does Even make me wild: O slave, of no more trust Than love that's hired! What, goest thou back ? thou shalt Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes, Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog! O rarely base!
He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick: the one is too like an image and says nothing, and the other too like my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.
I dream'd there was an Emperor Antony: O, such another sleep, that I might see But such another man!
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
Why is my lord enraged against his love ?
Not know me yet ?
I have been told so of many: but indeed an old religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard him read many lectures against it, and I thank God I am not a woman, to be touched with so many giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their whole sex withal.
Nay, that's certain.
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
Farewell.
I would we could do so, for her benefits are mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake in her gifts to women.
It was not lent me neither.
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing? Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us. Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
No, madam.
By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
I did, my lord, but loath am to produce So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall never take her without her answer, unless you take her without her tongue. O, that woman that cannot make her fault her husband's occasion, let her never nurse her child herself, for she will breed it like a fool!
How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and here much Orlando!
Thou art an unjust man in saying so: thou or any man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!
Saw you my lord ?
Why should I think you can be mine and true, Though you in swearing shake the throned gods, Who have been false to Fulvia ? Riotous madness, To be entangled with those mouth-made vows, Which break themselves in swearing!
He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
Nay, stay; let's hear the orisons he makes.
It rejoices me, that I hope I shall see him ere I die. I have letters that my son will be here to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain with me till they meet together.
He blushes, and 'tis it: Of six preceding ancestors, that gem, Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue, Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife; That ring's a thousand proofs.
I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
Stay, Edward.
I should believe you; For you have show'd me that which well approves You're great in fortune,
Not all these lords do vex me half so much As that proud dame, the lord protector's wife. She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies, More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife: Strangers in court do take her for the queen: She bears a duke's revenues on her back, And in her heart she scorns our poverty: Shall I not live to be avenged on her? Contemptuous base-born callet as she is, She vaunted 'mongst her minions t' other day, The very train of her worst wearing gown Was better worth than all my father's lands, Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of your breeding.
To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
Thy sale of offices and towns in France, If they were known, as the suspect is great, Would make thee quickly hop without thy head. Give me my fan: what, minion! can ye not? Gives the Duchess a box on the ear.  I cry you mercy, madam; was it you?
To the court! why, what place make you special, when you put off that with such contempt?   But to the court!
Now I see The bottom of your purpose.
Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain: Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds Having the fearful flying hare in sight, With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath, And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands, Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
Now, justice on the doers!
What?
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland, Come, make him stand upon this molehill here, That raught at mountains with outstretched arms, Yet parted but the shadow with his hand. What! was it you that would be England's king? Was't you that revell'd in our parliament, And made a preachment of your high descent? Where are your mess of sons to back you now? The wanton Edward, and the lusty George? And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy, Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies? Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland? Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood That valiant Clifford, with his rapier's point, Made issue from the bosom of the boy; And if thine eyes can water for his death, I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal. Alas, poor York! but that I hate thee deadly, I should lament thy miserable state. I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York. What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death? Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad; And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus. Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance. Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport: York cannot speak, unless he wear a crown. A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him: Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on. Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king! Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair, And this is he was his adopted heir. But how is it that great Plantagenet Is crown'd so soon, and broke his solemn oath? As I bethink me, you should not be king Till our King Henry had shook hands with death. And will you pale your head in Henry's glory, And rob his temples of the diadem, Now in his life, against your holy oath? O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable! Off with the crown; and, with the crown, his head; And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
With very much content, my lord; and I wish it happily effected.
Nay, pray you, seek no color for your going, But bid farewell, and go: when you sued staying, Then was the time for words: no going then; Eternity was in our lips and eyes, Bliss in our brows' bent; none our parts so poor, But was a race of heaven: they are so still, Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world, Art turn'd the greatest liar.
And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
So he doth you, my lord; and said this other day you ought him a thousand pound.
Was he not here ?
Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt thou love such a woman?   What, to make thee an instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to be endured! Well, go your way to her, for I see love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to her: that if she loves me, I charge her to love thee; if she will not, I will never have her unless thou entreat for her. If you be a true lover, hence, and not a word; for here comes more company. Enter OLIVER. 
I must be patient. You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife, May justly diet me.   I pray you yet; Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband; Send for your ring, I will return it home, And give me mine again.
Ay, go your ways, go your ways; I knew what you would prove: my friends told me as much, and I thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours won me: 'tis but one cast away, and so, come, death! Two o'clock is your hour?
I'll be put in bail, my liege.
It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
Not he; the queen.
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
Get thee hence; farewell.
Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to do than to confess she does: that is one of the points in the which women still give the lie to their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind is so admired?
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let me see; what think you of falling in love?
Nay, 'tis most certain, Iras: saucy lictors Will catch at us, like strumpets; and scald rhymers Ballad us out o' tune: the quick comedians Extemporally will stage us, and present Our Alexandrian revels; Antony Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness I' the posture of a whore.
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.
Ah, dear, if I be so, >From my cold heart let heaven engender hail, And poison it in the source; and the first stone Drop in my neck: as it determines, so Dissolve my life! The next Csarion smite! Till by degrees the memory of my womb, Together with my brave Egyptians all, By the discandying of this pelleted storm, Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile Have buried them for prey!
Help me, my women! O, he is more mad Than Telamon for his shield; the boar of Thessaly Was never so emboss'd.
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
No matter, sir, what I have heard or known. You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams; Is't not your trick ?
How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see him but I am heart-burned an hour after.
What have I kept back ?
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device By this alliance to make void my suit: Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for the love of Juno, let's go.
No, but to the gate; and there will the devil meet me, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven; here's no place for you maids:' so deliver I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the heavens; he shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry as the day is long.
Nor will you not tell me who you are?
There's something in't, More than my father's skill, which was the greatest Of his profession, that his good receipt Shall for my legacy be sanctified By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour But give me leave to try success, I'ld venture The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure By such a day and hour.
By my troth, captain, these are very bitter words.
By my troth, I kiss thee with a most constant heart.
Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd: It is not so with Him that all things knows As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows; But most it is presumption in us when The help of heaven we count the act of men. Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent; Of heaven, not me, make an experiment. I am not an impostor that proclaim Myself against the level of mine aim; But know I think and think I know most sure My art is not past power nor you past cure.
No, thou arrant knave; I would to God that I might die, that I might have thee hanged: thou hast drawn my shoulder out of joint.
You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy.
You have no reason; I do it freely. 
Most noble empress, you have heard of me ?
And how long is that, think you?
I am gone, though I am here: there is no love in you: nay, I pray you, let me go.
In nature's infinite book of secrecy A little I can read.
Csar, I shall. Enter DERCETAS, with the sword of ANTONY. 
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
You are my mother, madam; would you were,-- So that my lord your son were not my brother,-- Indeed my mother or were you both our mothers, I care no more for than I do for heaven, So I were not his sister. Can't no other, But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
For God's sake, thrust him down stairs: I cannot endure such a fustian rascal.
I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear. You know my father left me some prescriptions Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading And manifest experience had collected For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them, As notes whose faculties inclusive were More than they were in note: amongst the rest There is a remedy, approved, set down, To cure the desperate languishings whereof The king is render'd lost.
My duty then shall pay me for my pains: I will no more enforce mine office on you; Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts A modest one, to bear me back again.
By my troth, thou'lt set me a-weeping, an thou sayest so: prove that ever I dress myself handsome till thy return: well, harken at the end.
Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust? to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?   No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren; and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
I am sure you know him well enough.
His face was as the heavens; and therein stuck A sun and moon, which kept their course, and lighted The little O, the earth.
O, kill me too!
Mine. such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
O Csar, what a wounding shame is this, That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me, Doing the honor of thy lordliness To one so meek. that mine own servant should Parcel the sum of my disgraces by Addition of his envy! Say, good Csar, That I some lady trifles have reserved, Immoment toys, things of such dignity As we greet modern friends withal; and say, Some nobler token I have kept apart For Livia and Octavia, to induce Their mediation; must I be unfolded With one that I have bred ? The gods! it smites me Beneath the fall I have. Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits Through the ashes of my chance: wert thou a man, Thou wouldst have mercy on me.
No more, but e'en a woman, and commanded By such poor passion as the maid that milks And does the meanest chares. It were for me To throw my sceptre at the injurious gods; To tell them that this world did equal theirs Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but naught; Patience is scottish, and impatience does Become a dog that's mad: then is it sin To rush into the secret house of death, Ere death dare come to us ? How do you, women ? What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian ! My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look, Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart: We'll bury him; and then, what's brave, what's noble, Let's do it after the high Roman fashion, And make death proud to take us. Come, away: This case of that huge spirit now is cold: Ah, women, women ! come; we have no friend But resolution, and the briefest end.
I must stay his time.
Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral in this Benedictus.
I'll give thee, friend, An armor all of gold; it was a king's.
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of; and would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could teach me to forget a banished father, you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and the reason why they are not so punished and cured is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.
Ay, ay; farewell.
There were none principal; they were all like one another as half-pence are, every one fault seeming monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.
Why, that's the way To fool their preparation, and to conquer Their most absurd intents. Now, Charmian! Show me, my women, like a queen: go fetch My best attires: I am again for Cydnus, To meet Mark Antony: sirrah Iras, go. Now, noble Charmian, we'll dispatch indeed; And, when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all. Wherefore's this noise ? Exit Iras. A noise within.  Enter a Guardsman. 
It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
Do you know he promised me marriage? 
Madam, as thereto sworn by your command, Which my love makes religion to obey, I tell you this: Csar through Syria Intends his journey; and within three days You with your children will he send before: Make your best use of this: I have perform'd Your pleasure and my promise.
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness, that blind rascally boy that abuses every one's eyes because his own are out, let him be judge how deep I am in love. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and sigh till he come.
Nay, you might keep that check for it till you met your wife's wit going to your neighbor's bed.
You shall not need to fear me. 
O, never was there queen So mightily betray'd! yet at the first I saw the treasons planted.
Hear the ambassadors.
Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this French earl: the honour of a maid is her name; and no legacy is so rich as honesty.
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so-- What ransom must I pay before I pass? For I preceive I am thy prisoner.
To be a queen in bondage is more vile Than is a slave in base servility; For princes should be free.
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
You need but plead your honorable privilege.
Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
Alas! and would you take the letter of her? Might you not know she would do as she has done, By sending me a letter?   Read it again. 
Nay, then, this spark will prove a raging fire, If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with: No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still: Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been regent there, Might happily have proved far worse than his.
It must be an answer of most monstrous  size that must fit all demands.
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love, Means and attendants and my loving greetings To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home And pray God's blessing into thy attempt: Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this, What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
And thy ambition, Gloucester.
Dost thou believe it?
Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook, I saw not better sport these seven years' day: Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high; And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.
And so say I.
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all questions?
Not so, but as we change our courtesies. Will you draw near?
'Tis past, my liege; And I beseech your majesty to make it Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth; When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force, O'erbears it and burns on.
Hold, valiant Clifford! for a thousand causes I would prolong awhile the traitor's life. Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we shall lose all the sight.
Why speak'st thou not? what ransom must I pay?
Excellent falsehood! Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her ? I'll seem the fool I am not; Antony Will be himself.
Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would cudgel you.
They say the French count has done most honourable service.
I know   by that same eye, there's some good news. What says the married woman ? You may go: Would she had never given you leave to come! Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here: I have no power upon you; hers you are.
Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and 'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney.
O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou didst know how many fathom deep I am in love!   But it cannot be sounded: my affection hath an unknown bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
Where is the queen ?
Ay, my good lord.
I'll never tell you.
Let him come in. What poor an instrument May do a noble deed! he brings me liberty. My resolution's placed, and I have nothing Of woman in me: now from head to foot I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon No planet is of mine. Re-enter Guardsman, with Clown bringing in a basket. 
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of Rosalind:  if I could meet that fancy-monger, I would give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian of love upon him.
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to rejoice in yours.
Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me his love, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow, inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every passion something and for no passion truly any thing, as boys and women are for the most part cattle of this color; would now like him, now loathe him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now weep for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor from his mad humor of love to a living humor of madness; which was, to forswear the full stream of the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic. And thus I cured him; and this way will I take upon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in 't.
Lord of lords ! O infinite virtue, comest thou smiling from The world's great snare uncaught ?
It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your cap. By my troth, I am sick.
Have you done yet ?
Noblest of men, woo't die ? Hast thou no care of me ? shall I abide In this dull world, which in thy absence is No better than a sty ? O, see, my women, The crown o' the earth doth melt. My lord! O, wither'd is the garland of the war, The soldier's pole is fall'n: young boys and girls Are level now with men; the odds is gone, And there is nothing left remarkable Beneath the visiting moon. Faints. 
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought For things that others do; and, when we fall, We answer others' merits in our name, Are therefore to be pitied.
I told your majesty as much before: This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy! Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers! They that stabb'd Csar shed no blood at all, Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame, If this foul deed were by to equal it: He was a man; this, in respect, a child: And men ne'er spend their fury on a child. WXhat's worse than murderer, that I may name it? No, no, my heart will burst, an if I speak: And I will speak, that so my heart may burst. Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals! How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd! You have no children, butchers! if you had, The thought of them would have stirr'd up remorse: But if you ever chance to have a child, Look in his youth to have him so cut off As, deathsmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
His legs bestrid the ocean: his rear'd arm Crested the world: his voice was propertied As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends; But when he meant to quail and shake the orb, He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty, There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas That grew the more by reaping: his delights Were dolphin-like; they show'd his back above The element they lived in: in his livery Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
Did he never make you laugh?
The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed in good time: if the prince be too important, tell him there is measure in every thing and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero: wooing, wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig, a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot and hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes repentance and, with his bad legs, falls into the cinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
The rather will I spare my praises towards him; Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one, Which, as the dearest issue of his practice, And of his old experience the only darling, He bade me store up, as a triple eye, Safer than mine own two, more dear; I have so; And, hearing your high majesty is touch'd With that malignant cause wherein the honour Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power, I come to tender it and my appliance With all bound humbleness.
I love thee better than I love e'er a scurvy young boy of them all.
O' my word, captain, there's none such here. What the good-year! do you think I would deny her? For God's sake, be quiet.
Madam, I had.
Pardon, madam; The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother: I am from humble, he from honour'd name; No note upon my parents, his all noble: My master, my dear lord he is; and I His servant live, and will his vassal die: He must not be my brother.
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
Proculeius, What thou hast done thy master Csar knows, And he hath sent for thee: for the queen, I'll take her to my guard.
I make not, but foresee.
In faith, I will go.
Very ill.
None, my lord.
How do you mean? May be the amorous count solicits her In the unlawful purpose.
But this exceeding posting day and night Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it: But since you have made the days and nights as one, To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs, Be bold you do so grow in my requital As nothing can unroot you. In happy time; This man may help me to his majesty's ear, If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
Good morrow, coz. 
Hang yourself, you muddy conger, hang yourself!
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
I pray you. [Exeunt.
Tilly-fally, Sir John, ne'er tell me: your ancient swaggerer comes not in my doors. I was before Master Tisick, the debuty t'other day; and, as he said to me, 'twas no longer ago than Wednesday last. 'I' good faith, neighbor Quickly,' says he; Master Dunbe, our minister, was by then; 'neighbor Quickly,' says he, 'receive those that are civil; for' said he, 'you are in an ill name:' now a' said so, I can tell whereupon: 'for,' says he, 'you are an honest woman, and well thought on; therefore take heed what guests you receive: receive,' says he, 'no swaggering companions.' There comes none here: you would bless you to hear what he said: no, I'll no swaggerers.
Better than I was: hem!
I must not yield to any rites of love, For my profession's sacred from above: When I have chased all thy foes from hence, Then will I think upon a recompense.
Is't not a sweet fac'd youth, Pilia ?
For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
Pilia-borza , didst thou meet with Ithimore ?
Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
O the good gods!
In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you excellent news of your husband.
That head, my lord ?
He is a god, and knows What is most right: mine honor was not yielded, But conquer'd merely.
I am paid for't now. Lead me from hence: I faint: O Iras, Charmian ! 'tis no matter. Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him Report the feature of Octavia, her years, Her inclination, let him not leave out The color of her hair: bring me word quickly. Let him for ever go :let him notCharmian, Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon, The other way's a Mars. Bid you Alexas To Mardian.  Bring me word how tall she is. Pity me, Charmian, But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber. Exeunt. 
O that brave Csar !
Is he married ? I cannot hate thee worser than I do, If thou again say 'Yes.'
Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well becomes the ground.
Madam, I will.
Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
A proper man.
He alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
Indeed !
Charmian!
Not mine, in good sooth.
What is it carries you away?
Question, my lords, no further of the case, How or which way: 'tis sure they found some place But weakly guarded, where the breach was made. And now there rests no other shift than this; To gather our soldiers, scatter'd and dispersed, And lay new platforms to endamage them.  They fly, leaving
   their clothes behind. 
Ay, indeed, was he.
What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
What will you do, good grey-beard? break a lance, And run a tilt at death within a chair?
Fie, coward woman and softhearted wretch! Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
Do you love my son?
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen As guilty of Duke Humprey's timeless death.
Was't I! yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman: Could I come near your beauty with my nails, I'ld set my ten commandments in your face.
It is enough; I'll think upon the questions: When from Saint Alban's we do make return, We'll see these things effected to the full. Here, Hume, take this reward; make merry, man, With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
Be woe for me, more wretched than he is. What, dost thou turn away and hide thy face? I am no loathsome leper; look on me. What! art thou, like the adder, waxen deaf? Be poisonous too and kill thy forlorn queen. Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb? Why, then, dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy. Erect his statua and worship it, And make my image but an alehouse sign. Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea And twice by awkward wind from England's bank Drove back again unto my native clime? What boded this, but well forewarning wind Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest, Nor set no footing on this unkind shore'? What did I then, but cursed the gentle gusts And he that loosed them   forth their brazen caves; And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore, Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock? Yet AEolus would not be a murderer, And left that hateful office unto thee: The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me, Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore, With tears as salt as sea, through thy unkindness: The splitting rocks cower'd in the sinking sands And would not dash me with their ragged sides, Because thy flinty heart, more hard than they, Might in thy palace perish Margaret. As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs, When from thy shore the tempest beat us back, I stood upon the hatches in the storm, And when the dusky sky began to rob My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view, I took a costly jewel from my neck, A heart it was, bound in with diamonds, And threw it towards thy land: the sea received it, And so I wish'd thy body might my heart: And even with this I lost fair England's view And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles, For losing ken of Albion's wished coast. How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue, The agent of thy foul inconstancy, To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did When he to madding Dido would unfold His father's acts commenced in burning Troy! Am I not witch'd like her? or thou not false like him? Ay me, I can no more! die, Margaret! For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
Mischance and sorrow go along with you! Heart's discontent and sour affliction Be playfellows to keep you company! There's two of you; the devil make a third! And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law: God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again? My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see The mystery of your loneliness, and find Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross You love my son; invention is ashamed, Against the proclamation of thy passion, To say thou dost not: therefore tell me true; But, tell me then, 'tis so; for, look, thy cheeks Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes See it so grossly shown in thy behaviours That in their kind they speak it: only sin And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue, That truth should be suspected. Speak, is 't so? If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew; If it be not, forswear 't: howe'er, I charge thee, As heaven shall work in me for thine avail, Tell me truly.
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace; If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow. God speed the parliament! who shall be the speaker?
Art thou gone too? all comfort go with thee For none abides with me: my joy is death; Death, at whose name I oft have been afear'd, Because I wish'd this world's eternity. Stanley, I prithee, go, and take me hence; I care not whither, for I beg no favour, Only convey me where thou art commanded.
His wife, an't like your worship.
These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen, Through which our policy must make a breach: Take heed, be wary how you place your words; Talk like the vulgar sort of market men That come to gather money for their corn. If we have entrance, as I hope we shall, And that we find the slothful watch but weak, I'll by a sign give notice to our friends, That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
But hear you, my lord.
'Tis sweating labor To bear such idleness so near the heart As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me; Since my becomings kill me, when they do not Eye well to you: your honor calls you hence; Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly. And all the gods go with you! upon your sword Sit laurel victory ! and smooth success Be strew'd before your feet!
What's that?
Now, as I am a true woman, holland  of eight shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir John, for your diet and by-drinkings,  and money lent you, four and twenty pound.
Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure In aught an eunuch has: 'tis well for thee, That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections ?
Nothing, madam.
I'll graft it with you, and then I shall graff it with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.
Behold, sir.
Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must speak. Sweet, say on. 
The gods confound thee! dost thou hold there still ?
The valiant Csar !
Where is the fellow ?
O !
Prithee, peace.
Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from him last night.
I'll never see 't; for, I am sure, my nails Are stronger than mine eyes.
But how, but how ? give me particulars.
And didst thou deliver my letter?
Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no more sailing by the star.
Though womans modesty should hale me backe, I can with-hold no longer; welcome sweet love.
Christ's mother helps me, else I were too weak.
I' faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality: your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire; and your color, I warrant you, is as red as any rose, in good truth, la! But, i' faith, you have drunk too much canaries; and that's a marvellous searching wine, and it perfumes the blood ere one can say 'What's this?' How do you now?
In every thing I wait upon his will.
Pray ye, pacify yourself, Sir John: there comes no swaggerers here.
Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly, And to imperial Love, that god most high, Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
Why, how now? do you speak in the sick tune?
I know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio.
Which is the Frenchman?
Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
That it will please you To give this poor petition to the king, And aid me with that store of power you have To come into his presence.
Which is he?
I do.
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire her to rise.
Cheater, call you him?   I will bar no honest man my house, nor no cheater: but I do not love swaggering, by my troth; I am the worse, when one says swagger: feel, masters, how I shake; look you, I warrant you.
What's his will else?
Gentlemen, Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
By my troth, this is the old fashion; you two never meet but you fall to some discord:  you are both, i' good truth, as rheumatic as two dry toasts; you cannot one bear with another's confirmities.   What the good-year! one must bear, and that must be you: you are the weaker vessel, as they say, the emptier vessel.
Ay, madam.
Why so?
Canst thou be so unkind to leave me thus?
I say my prayers aloud.
Not in my husband's nose.
None but friends: say boldly.
What shall we do, Enobarbus ?
Let me sit down. O Juno!
He is married ?
That Herod's head I'll have: but how, when Antony is gone Through whom I might command it ? Come thou near.
O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
I warrant you, madam.
Then there is no true lover in the forest; else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.
O eastern star!
I will not sing.
And target. Still he mends; But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian, How this Herculean Roman does become The carriage of his chafe.
We'll know all our fortunes.
O, 'tis treason !
O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not how oft, that that ring was copper!
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself! For whilst I think I am thy married wife And thou a prince, protector of this land, Methinks I should not thus be led along, Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back, And follow'd with a rabble that rejoice To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans. The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet, And when I start, the envious people laugh And bid me be advised how I tread. Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke? Trow'st thou that e'er I'll look upon the world, Or count them happy that enjoy the sun? No; dark shall be my light and night my day; To think upon my pomp shall be my hell. Sometime I'll say, I am Duke Humphrey's wife, And he a prince and ruler of the land: Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess, Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock To every idle rascal follower. But be thou mild and blush not at my shame, Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will; For Suffolk, he that can do all in all With her that hateth thee and hates us all, And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest, Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings, And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee: But fear not thou, until thy foot be snared, Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
Good morrow, gallants! want ye corn for bread? I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast Before he'll buy again at such a rate: 'Twas full of darnel; do you like the taste?
Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend? At all times will you have my power alike? Sleeping or waking must I still prevail, Or will you blame and lay the fault on me? Improvident soldiers! had your watch been good, This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet: No, it will hang upon my richest robes And show itself, attire me how I can. Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.
Then lead me hence; with whom I leave my curse: May never glorious sun reflex his beams Upon the country where you make abode; But darkness and the gloomy shade of death Environ you, till mischief and despair Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves! 
Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife? Is Beaufort term'd a kite?   Where are his talons?
Is this all your worship's reason?
I say, I am your mother.
Enough, sweet Suffolk; thou torment'st thyself; And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass, Or like an overcharged gun, recoil, And turn the force of them upon thyself.
He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was his great right to be so: Gerard de Narbon.
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my overlooking.   I have those hopes of her good that her education promises; her dispositions she inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there commendations go with pity; they are virtues and traitors too; in her they are the better for their simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
Nor I your mother?
O, let me entreat thee cease. Give me thy hand, That I may dew it with my mournful tears; Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place, To wash away my woful monuments. O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand, That thou mightst think upon these by the seal, Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee! So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief; 'Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by. As one that surfeits thinking on a want. I will repeal thee, or, be well assured, Adventure to be banished myself: And banished I am, if but from thee. Go; speak not to me; even now be gone. O, go not yet!   Even thus two friends condemn'd Embrace and kiss and take ten thousand leaves, Loather a hundred times to part than die. Yet now farewell; and farewell life with thee!
He dares not calm his contumelious spirit Nor cease to be an arrogant controller, Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times.
May the world know them?
O, give me leave, I have deluded you: 'Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named, But Reignier, king of Naples, that prevail'd.
Ay, ay, farewell; thy office is discharged. Come, Stanley, shall we go?
Advance our waving colours on the walls; Rescued is Orleans from the English: Thus Joan la Pucelle hath performed her word.
Behold, this is the happy wedding torch That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen, But burning fatal to the Talbotites!
Come you, my lord, to see my open shame? Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze! See how the giddy multitude do point, And nod their heads, and throw their eyes on thee! Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks, And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame, And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
What say you ? Hence, Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head: She hales him up and down.  Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire, and stew'd in brine, Smarting in lingering pickle.
Thou, eunuch Mardian!
Lo, now, if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold, they would make themselves whores, but they'ld do't! 
My lord, I pray you, hear me.
O Jesu, my lord the prince!
Courteous lord, one word. Sir, you and I must part, but that's not it: Sir, you and I have loved, but there's not it; That you know well: something it is I would, O, my oblivion is a very Antony, And I am all forgotten.
Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain; that I may say, The gods themselves do weep!
I will speak to him, like a saucy lackey and under that habit play the knave with him. Do you hear, forester?
Hath he seen majesty ? Isis else defend, And serving you so long!
O most gentle pulpiter! what tedious homily of love have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never cried 'Have patience, good people'!
Go to, go to. Come hither, sir. 
O, I would thou didst, So half my Egypt were submerged and made A cistern for scaled snakes! Go, get thee hence: Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married ?
Ah, stand by.
Is Antony or we in fault for this ?
Go on: right royal.
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she ?
So would not I, for your own sake; for I have many ill qualities.
Whither so soone?
And what think'st thou, will he come?
'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.' Nothing in France, until he has no wife! Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France; Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is 't I That chase thee from thy country and expose Those tender limbs of thine to the event Of the none-sparing war? and is it I That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark Of smoky muskets?   O you leaden messengers, That ride upon the violent speed of fire, Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air, That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord Whoever shoots at him, I set him there; Whoever charges on his forward breast, I am the caitiff that do hold him to't; And, though I kill him not, I am the cause I met the ravin lion when he roar'd His death was so effected: better 'twere With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere That all the miseries which nature owes Were mine at once.   No, come thou home, Rousillon, Whence honour but of danger wins a scar, As oft it loses all: I will be gone; My being here it is that holds thee hence: Shall I stay here to do't? no, no, although The air of paradise did fan the house And angels officed all: I will be gone, That pitiful rumour may report my flight, To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day! For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest, That I protest I simply am a maid. Please it your majesty, I have done already: The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me, 'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused, Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever; We'll ne'er come there again.'
Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogshead? there's a whole merchant's  venture of Bourdeaux stuff in him; you have not seen a hulk better stuffed in the hold. Come, I'll be friends with thee, Jack: thou art going to the wars; and whether I shall ever see thee again or no, there is nobody cares.
So you do, hostess.
What more commands he?
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a good husband.
I like him well.
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is exceedingly heavy.
I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen From the report that goes upon your goodness; And therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions, Which lay nice manners by, I put you to The use of your own virtues, for the which I shall continue thankful.
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Nor you, mistress, Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labor To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower, As it hath fated her to be my motive And helper to a husband. But, O strange men! That can such sweet use make of what they hate, When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts Defiles the pitchy night: so lust doth play With what it loathes for that which is away. But more of this hereafter. You, Diana, Under my poor instructions yet must suffer Something in my behalf.
And bid her come hither.
I know you by the waggling of your head.
If you misdoubt me that I am not she, I know not how I shall assure you further, But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
O, I believe with him, In argument of praise, or to the worth Of the great count himself, she is too mean To have her name repeated: all her deserving Is a reserved honesty, and that I have not heard examined.
If she be very well, what does she ail that she's not very well?
Away, you cut-purse rascal! you filthy bung, away! by this wine, I 'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps, an you play the saucy cuttle with me. Away, you bottle-ale rascal! you basket-hilt stale juggler, you! Since when, I pray you, sir?   God's light, with two points on your shoulder? much!
I make them! gluttony and diseases make them: I make them not.
My wish receive, Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
Finish, good lady; the bright day is done, And we are for the dark.
Madam, O good empress!
Well, then, farewell.
Prethe, Pilia-borza , bid the Fidler give me the posey in his hat there.
I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian: But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me Where I will write. All may be well enough.
Most kind messenger, Say to great Csar this: in deputation I kiss his conquering hand: tell him, I am prompt To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel: Tell him, from his all-obeying breath I hear The doom of Egypt.
O my lord, my lord, Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought You would have follow'd.
Nay, I pritheee now with most petitionary vehemence, tell me who it is.
Please you, retire to your chamber.
But doth he know that I am in this forest and in man's apparel?   Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled?
Peace, peace, Iras!
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt. Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again: Though I am mad, I will not bite him: call.
Is she as tall as me ?
Why, there's more gold. But, sirrah, mark, we use To say the dead are well: bring it to that, The gold I give thee will I melt and pour Down thy ill-uttering throat.
There's a palm presages chastity, if  nothing else.
Cut my lace, Charmian, come; But let it be: I am quickly ill, and well, So Antony loves.
O, the father, how he holds his countenance!
No, Sir John; you do not know me, Sir John. I know you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John; and now you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.
How   much unlike art thou Mark Antony ! Yet, coming from   him, that great medicine hath With his tinct gilded thee. How goes it with my brave Mark Antony ?
Of all base passions, fear is most accursed. Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine, Let Henry fret and all the world repine.
Against her will! good king, look to't in time; She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby: Though in this place most master wear no breeches, She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unrevenged.
Belike your lordship takes us then for fools, To try if that our own be ours or no.
Why, no, I say, distrustful recreants! Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
Most true, forsooth; and many time and oft Myself have heard a voice to call him so.
Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
Why do you rate my Lord of Suffolk thus? Although the duke was enemy to him, Yet he most Christian-like laments his death: And for myself, foe as he was to me, Might liquid tears or heart-offending groans Or blood-consuming sighs recall his life, I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans, Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs, And all to have the noble duke alive. What know I how the world may deem of me? For it is known we were but hollow friends: It may be judged I made the duke away; So shall my name with slander's tongue be wounded, And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach. This get I by his death: ay me, unhappy! To be a queen, and crown'd with infamy!
And take my heart with thee.
You have discharged this honestly; keep it to yourself: many likelihoods informed me of this before, which hung so tottering in the balance that I could neither believe nor misdoubt.   Pray you, leave me: stall this in your bosom; and I thank you for your honest care: I will speak with you further anon. Enter HELENA.  Even so it was with me when I was young: If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong; Our blood to us, this to our blood is born; It is the show and seal of nature's truth, Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth: By our remembrances of days foregone, Such were our faults, or then we thought them none. Her eye is sick on 't: I observe her now.
Away! though parting be a fretful corrosive, It is applied to a deathful wound. To France, sweet Suffolk: let me hear from thee; For wheresoe'er thou art in this world's globe, I'l have an Iris that shall find thee out.
Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me; and she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully make title to as much love as she finds: there is more owing her than is paid; and more shall be paid her than she'll demand.
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave?
How fares my gracious lord?
In what case?
A plum-tree, master.
Assign'd am I to be the English scourge. This night the siege assuredly I'll raise: Expect Saint Martin's summer, halcyon days, Since I have entered into these wars. Glory is like a circle in the water, Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself Till by broad spreading it disperse to nought. With Henry's death the English circle ends; Dispersed are the glories it included. Now am I like that proud insulting ship Which Csar and his fortune bare at once.
Away, captains! let's get us from the walls; For Talbot means no goodness by his looks. God be wi' you, my lord! we came but to tell you That we are here.
Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this gear the sooner the better.
The regent conquers, and the Frenchmen fly. Now help, ye charming spells and periapts; And ye choice spirits that admonish me And give me signs of future accidents. You speedy helpers, that are substitutes Under the lordly monarch of the north, Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Enter Fiends.  This speedy and quick appearance argues proof Of your accustom'd diligence to me. Now ye familiar spirits, that are cull'd Out of the powerful regions under earth, Help me this once, that France may get the field. They walk, and speak not.  O, hold me not with silence over-long! Where I was wont to feed you with my blood, I'll lop a member off and give it you In earnest of a further benefit, So you do condescend to help me now. They hang their heads.  No hope to have redress?   My body shall Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit. They shake their heads.  Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice Entreat you to your wonted furtherance? Then take my soul, my body, soul and all, Before that England give the French the foil. They depart.  See, they forsake me!   Now the time is come That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest And let her head fall into England's lap. My ancient incantations are too weak, And hell too strong for me to buckle with: Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust. Exit.  Excursions. Re-enter LA PUCELLE fighting
   hand to hand with YORK: LA PUCELLE is
   taken. The French fly. 
Who, I? no; I defy thee: God's light, I was never called so in mine own house before.
O Charmian, Where think'st thou he is now ? Stands he, or sits he ? Or does he walk ? or is he on his horse ? O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony ! Do bravely, horse ! for wot'st thou whom thou movest ? The demi-Atlas of this earth, the arm And burgonet of men. He's speaking now, Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile ?' For so he calls me: now I feed myself With most delicious poison. Think on me, That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black, And wrinkled deep in time ? Broad-fronted Csar, When thou wast here above the ground, I was A morsel for a monarch: and great Pompey Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow; There would he anchor his aspect and die With looking on his life.
O most false love! Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill With sorrowful water ? Now I see, I see, In Fulvia's death, how mine received shall be.
No, you shall paint when you are old.
O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
Antonius dead ! If thou say so, villain, Thou kill'st thy mistress: but well and free, If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here My bluest veins to kiss; a hand that kings Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
Didst hear her speak ? is she shrilltongued or low ?
I will not hurt him. These hands do lack nobility, that they strike A meaner than myself; since I myself Have given myself the cause. Re-enter CHARMIAN and Messenger. Come hither, sir. Though it be honest, it is never good To bring bad news: give to a gracious message. An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tell Themselves when they be felt.
O Cleopatra! thou art taken, queen.
It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops forth such fruit.
To the monument! There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead. The soul and body rive not more in parting Than greatness going off.
Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my disposition? One inch of delay more is a South-sea of discovery; I prithee, tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings.
Well then, sustain him: O!
What's your name ?
The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
How sweet, my Ithimore , the flowers smell.
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
Go to him, madam, speak to him: He is unqualitied with very shame.
The gods forbid !
You muddy rascal, is that all the comfort you give me?
The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes, Before I speak, too threateningly replies: Love make your fortunes twenty times above Her that so wishes and her humble love!
My mother greets me kindly: is she well?
Charge me! I scorn you, companion. What! you poor, base, rascally, cheating, lack-linen mate! Away, you mouldy rogue, away! I am meat for your master.
What's his name?
You could never do him so ill-well, unless you were the very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: you are he, you are he.
Nor would I wish you. First, give me trust, the count he is my husband, And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken Is so from word to word; and then you cannot, By the good aid that I of you shall borrow, Err in bestowing it.
Yet, I pray you: But with the word the time will bring on summer, When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns, And be as sweet as sharp. We must away; Our wagon is prepared, and time revives us: ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL: still the fine's the crown; Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
I humbly thank you: Please it this matron and this gentle maid To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking Shall be for me; and, to requite you further, I will bestow some precepts of this virgin Worthy the note.
I will, lady.
O, that exceeds, they say.
That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you, One of the greatest in the Christian world Shall be my surety; 'fore whose throne 'tis needful, Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel: Time was, I did him a desired office, Dear almost as his life; which gratitude Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth, And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd His grace is at Marseilles; to which place We have convenient convoy. You must know, I am supposed dead: the army breaking, My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding, And by the leave of my good lord the king, We'll be before our welcome.
Laughest thou, wretch? thy mirth shall turn to moan.
Good my lord, be good to me. I beseech you, stand to me.
Be not afraid that I your hand should take; I'll never do you wrong for your own sake: Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
Why, that 's well said; a good heart's worth gold. Lo, here comes Sir John.
Do I? yea, in very truth, do I, an 'twere an aspen leaf: I cannot abide swaggerers.
What two things?
Do, most dear queen.
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw 't.
Royal queen!
Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
You two alone  ?  . 
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.  Come, good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy solemness out o' door, and go along with us.
O, my pardon !
Your Csar's father oft, When he hath mused of taking kingdoms in, Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place, As it rain'd kisses.
Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and hose? What did he when thou sawest him? What said he? How looked he? Wherein went he? What makes he here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he? How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see him again? Answer me in one word.
O madam, madam, madam!
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before you came; for look here what I found on a palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I can hardly remember.
Madam !
Where ?
Rogue, thou hast lived too long.
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage, good Aliena!
Excellent.
Then be still.
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
The sheriff and all the watch are at the door: they are come to search the house. Shall I let them in?
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at door would speak with you: he says he comes from your father.
So Fulvia told me. I prithee, turn aside and weep for her, Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears Belong to Egypt: good now, play one scene Of excellent dissembling; and let it look Life perfect honor.
Talbot, farewell; thy hour is not yet come: I must go victual Orleans forthwith. O'ertake me if thou canst; I scorn thy strength. Go, go, cheer up thy hungry-starved men; Help Salisbury to make his testament: This day is ours, as many more shall be. Exit. 
Never, before this day, in all his life.
Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
Then thus it must be; this doth Joan devise: By fair persuasions mix'd with sugar'd words We will entice the Duke of Burgundy To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
You know, Helen, I am a mother to you.
Whither goes Vaux so fast? what news, I prithee?
How fares my lord? Help, lords! the king is dead.
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her; Helen, I mean.
Run, go, help, help!   O Henry, ope thine eyes!
What, one good in ten? you corrupt the song, sirrah.
Nay, a mother: Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,' Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,' That you start at it? I say, I am your mother; And put you in the catalogue of those That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds A native slip to us from foreign seeds: You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan, Yet I express to you a mother's care: God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother? What's the matter, That this distemper'd messenger of wet The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eyes? Why? that you are my daughter?
Go tell this heavy message to the king. Ay me! what is this world! what news are these! But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss, Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure? Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee, And with the southern clouds contend in tears, Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows? Now get thee hence: the king, thou know'st, is coming; If thou be found by me, thou art but dead.
Away, my lord! you are slow; for shame, away!
Dismay not, princes, at this accident, Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered: Care is no cure, but rather corrosive, For things that are not to be remedied. Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while And like a peacock sweep along his tail; We'll pull his plumes and take away his train, If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
Not half so bad as thine to England's king, Injurious duke, that threatest where's no cause.
Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
An old man.
You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
What, was he sad or merry ?
Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? do you think I keep thieves in my house? I have searched, I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before.
Now God help thee!
Three in Egypt Cannot make better note.
Let me love him for that, and do you love him because I do. Look, here comes the duke.
Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee, And make thy fortunes proud: the blow thou hadst Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage; And I will boot thee with what gift beside Thy modesty can beg.
Didst thou behold Octavia ?
Do! why: what else?
Ay, but the feet were lame and could not bear themselves without the verse and therefore stood lamely in the verse.
Lady !
Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak, sad brow and true maid.
Good my lord,
Pardon, pardon!
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it. Thus it is: the Volsces have an army forth; against whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true, on mine honor; and so, I pray, go with us.
Tis not thy mony, but thy selfe I weigh: var:#Thus] See thus C#   Thus  See thus   Bellamira esteemes of gold; var:#<I>him</I>^] ~ .&mdash;&mdash;#  But thus of thee  . 
And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit, but hurt not.
Royal Egypt, Empress!
No, at a word, madam; indeed, I must not. I wish you much mirth.
Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people! for, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded: therefore, dear Isis, keep decorum, and fortune him accordingly !
Come, I'll drink no proofs nor no bullets: I'll drink no more than will do me good, for no man's pleasure, I.
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own good fortunes.
You are too young, too happy, and too good, To make yourself a son out of my blood.
Sick of a calm; yea, good faith.
O my most worshipful lord, an't please your grace, I am a poor widow of Eastcheap, and he is arrested at my suit.
Why, art not thou the man?
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear none but this.
Why then to-night Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed, Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed And lawful meaning in a lawful act, Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact: But let's about it.
Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an end. 
